And they were like, look, we're sticking your shit.
And here's, it's kind of like, I don't know, being brought in on some, you know, they,
they got, you know, not Pablo Escobar, the other big,
Chappo, whatever big drug guy they caught on tax fraud.
I'm blanking on his name.
You know what I'm talking about.
Hocapone.
Hocapone.
Yeah.
So it's like, all right, we can't get you on what we really hate you for, but here we
got you.
You know, fuck you.
Yeah.
But Hocapone would actually committed crimes.
Right.
I use it as an analogy to say, we can't catch you on what like we really want, because,
you know, we can't pin that down, but we're going to get you for whatever we can.
And are you, are you okay with that?
With Hocapone situation?
Or with Sargon?
I mean, with, right now with Sargon, in general, are you okay with that?
But also in this specific situation, I mean, in general, are you okay with someone in power
saying, well, I can't pin anything on you, but I don't like you.
So I'm going to make some shit up.
Okay.
So there's, I think the situations are too disanalogous for me to make a comparison.
There, because on the one hand, we're saying, we're going to take away your freedom and
put you in jail, not just because I don't like you, because Capone was breaking the law and
hurting people and killing people.
So like there, you know, that was more like, we need to get you out of society by whatever
means necessary.
And we're not going to just kill you because we're too cool for that, I guess.
No, they killed lots of people without due process back in that time.
Fair enough.
And continue to.
That's true.
I guess the difference between that and Christopher or Carl Benjamin's position is that he, no
one's taking the ways right to do stuff.
They're just taking the ways is they're, they're saying, we're not going to let you make money
through us doing it.
Okay.
Right.
So like he could presumably set up his own, you know, saying we won't let you use our
surface.
Right.
Okay.
Which is the only game in town apparently.
It is.
Okay.
I think so.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm pretty sure that you could still do.
Yeah.
On an easy scale.
Like, um, you can sign up through, you know, somebody, I'm not sure if he could do his
own PayPal.
I don't know if PayPal has explicitly kicked him off or not, but I know people can do that.
There are, there are ways to do a box and be like, please mail me checks.
And there are ways to do like recurring monthly payments through PayPal too.
So, you know, presumably if you wanted to do that, he could, um, I think my thing is
like, as far as is it, is it wrong to deny him the ability to use their service is kind
of what you're asking.
Uh, yeah, I think I'm torn.
Like on the one hand, it's like, it's, if, if I owned a Patreon, I'm like, well, you're
an asshole.
I don't want you using it.
Right.
So like, but Patreon is not owned by one person.
Patreon is a dragon.
It is a non-human entity.
And at that point, it gives up some rights in my opinion.
I, I have this real problem with services and platforms using their power to fuck individuals.
Uh, for example, lots of neo-Nazis, I am sure, use things like Microsoft Word to write up
their screeds and then print them out and spread pamphlets around colleges, right?
People still do that nowadays because we invented the printing press for this, right?
Anyways, I'm sure not neo-Nazis use Microsoft Word and they probably run their computers
using, uh, Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Windows doesn't fucking discriminate.
They're like, we're a platform.
This you buy our product, you can use our product.
We don't go around vetting and judging everybody.
And I mean, that's, that's what a platform is.
I don't want my fucking nail supplier to go and vet everyone and make sure that are you
using this nail for a, you know, culturally approved product because if you're using it
for something that is too far to the right or too far to the left where you're not allowed
to do it, it's like you fucking run a hardware store, sell me your goddamn nails.
So, and I mean, Bill, Bill Gates like went off on Google and YouTube and Facebook for
this sort of thing.
At one point he said, you call yourselves a platform, but a platform is something that
creates far more value than it captures windows, arguably when it runs well, creates a lot
more value than is captured.
And same with Word and Excel and all those things.
The entire internet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the, these companies capture almost all their value.
They steal, not steal, they gather all these metrics on us.
They sell them to advertisers.
Every single bit of value that they can squeeze out is captured and squeezed out.
They're not, they're not true platforms in that sense.
But also in the sense that now they're even judging who can and can't use their product,
which I think is complete bullshit.
All right.
I know we're not giving our guests a lot of time to talk right now, but I just had opinions.
I'm going to jump back at that anyway, because we disagree so seldom that I think this is
interesting.
So you guys will feel just a shadow of us anytime.
I think, all right, so I'm going to do the reducto at absurdum that I do to illustrate
like any point to see if there's, is there any point where you'd say, look, now I'm okay
with them banning them from Patreon?
Like if, if, if Osama Bin Laden had a Patreon account, would you say they shouldn't let
him use it?
If you're literally breaking law, if you're using your free speech to a call to for violence,
incitements to violence or harassment.
So you would do it at law breaking?
Yeah.
Okay.
That's why I was pointing out that the Capone example, I don't think is quite the same.
And that like the tactic of catching somebody for some technicality, that's not a tactic
that I would want my enemies to be able to use against me legally.
So if, you know, the current culture weren't what he was also breaking tax, tax laws, wasn't
he?
Yes, he was.
So like they got him on an actual thing that he actually did.
And I guess that sounds like a joke, but the truth is, think about the amount of money
Al Capone had and that if he had been taxed, that money would have gone towards schools
and hospitals.
Like there's a real case to be made that that was the crime that did the most damage in
the long run.
I didn't mean to cut you off though.
That was pretty much my point.
Yeah.
And your point still stands whether or not like that was an actual thing.
I see what you're saying.
I guess for me that are you familiar with how the justice system works nowadays in that
this is basically what happens to people.
I have never been brought up on charges.
Well, I mean, I haven't either, but I've read enough about it.
The 99% of cases never go to trial.
And if they did, the system would collapse.
We do not have the infrastructure, the people, the courts, the judges, the money to actually
give everyone a fair trial.
So what happens is someone gets pulled into the police station under suspicion from the
officers that arrested them.
And they're like, look, we got you on this and this and this and they will name not.
I mean, what they want you on is you were selling heroin or something, right?
But they're like, we got you on position of this, we got you on possession of a weapon.
You don't have your permit up to date.
They will throw so many things at you.
And they're like, look, we can press all these charges.
You are looking at a hundred years in jail, or you can just plea to this, this one charge.
You only spend 10 years in jail.
And the thing is a lot of people who are actually innocent plead guilty.
They'll take two years in jail for something they didn't do because one, they're facing
these huge charges.
And two, they know that if they're one of the tiny few people who push back and like,
no, I didn't do this, prove it, you know, prove that you did this, the court cannot
allow people to do that en masse because then the system would grind to a halt.
So they fucking throw the book at you if you try to fight it.
Right.
And a much smaller scale, you get those the traffic tickets too.
Yeah.
If you pay, if you pay your ticket early, you pay a reduced fine and fewer points in
your license.
Whereas if you take it to court, you agree that you're going to pay a maximum of whatever,
150% of the face value of the ticket, plus you get like double the points.
So it's like we're incentivizing you to just not exercise your rights.
And so yeah, it's weird.
But the thing is, how many people are not guilty of a felony?
Have you watched something that you have not paid for?
Never.
Right?
Have you ever done a substance which is controlled by the government?
Probably not.
I don't feel comfortable in this room anymore.
I'm a good, drug-fearing, God-loving patriot.
Literally every single citizen in the United States can be put in jail if the government
wants you in jail.
I'd like to point out something.
It's a pain in the ass to fight it, but I actually have been prosecuted for things and
I do fight traffic tickets and I've never lost.
That's because cops almost never show up to the hearings to stay too busy.
If you are willing to show up every single time, I've always had them say, why are you
here?
Why did you decide to fight this?
And my answer is usually, I don't care about the money, I just don't want any points on
my license.
And every single time the judge is like, if you care about it enough to fight us and
risk doing that, I'm okay with it.
And they just give it to me.
Yeah, that's what I've heard, but it's just so much trouble.
If you're willing to be the jerk and be more persistent, the system actually favors the
normal person, but most people don't go after it because it is such a pain.
And a lot of times, the reason people will accept those plea deals is because they'll
keep you in the jail until you make a decision.
And if you accept and take the plea, they'll send you home.
They'll often get you out on time served.
Yeah, and you now have a phony on your record, but you got to go home.
Yeah, and I think traffic tickets are kind of like a watered down version of the actual
law.
I was in the courtroom once waiting for somebody else's time before the judge and the guy before
