So everyone tell me why I'm wrong about Red Dead Redemption.
I feel like I must have a cold, dead heart or something
because I never get attached to the things in video games, really.
Do you, are you able to play the dark route in games at all?
You kind of choose your responses or choose your game path
because I have a hard time with that too.
I mean, I'm able to.
I generally don't want, I generally don't, but I can.
I'm looking for orphans to murder.
I tried to do it.
I've actually, I just started playing on the, what is it?
It's not the Life is Strange sequel before the storm.
Right.
And I was like, I'm going to make this character behave like an asshole
because that's actually in character for her.
And I found it so hard to just go up to NPCs
and say mean things to them,
especially if they gave me a sad expression afterwards.
Like she goes like and talks shit to her mom,
who's like a like single mom.
I feel like you should save this conversation for super stimuli
because once they make you care more
about the digital creatures than real humans,
then we're in a bad place.
I care more about real humans.
For now.
I did kind of love Vivi from Final Fantasy IX.
I would have been sad if something bad happened to him.
You do have a heart.
So that's not about the moral choices and stuff
and choosing the bad character.
Like I can't do that.
I always play the Paragon of Virtue, you know, like Bioshock.
You can harvest the little sisters or you can save them
and you get less, you get less power points,
but you get, you get the warm fuzzies.
I usually do the thing that's more story interesting.
I remember in Mass Effect there were times
when you could do an option like during the cut scenes
to either choose a Paragon thing
or to choose a, what was the renegade?
And the renegade was the evil one supposedly.
But there were a lot of times
when like only one of the options came up.
And whenever you pick the option,
you would get a more interesting storyline event happen.
So I didn't care.
I was like, whether it's good or evil,
I will always pick one if there's only one option
because it's more interesting that way.
Red Dead 2 handles that really well
in that the first game you're playing
like a reformed outlaw where he's like,
I'm just trying to do the right thing
and get back on, you know,
go over, live on my ranch with my wife and kids.
This one, you're still part of the gang.
This, this takes place before the first one.
And so your partner still-
Oh, that's a prickle too.
Yeah, you're still part of the gang.
And so like for tasks that you have to go do,
you've got to like, you know, go collect loan shark debts
and like just beat this guy up in front of his wife and kids.
And it's like, I don't really want to.
But it's like, it's perfectly in character
for Arthur and Morgan to do this.
So I guess I'm going to kick this dude's ass.
He shouldn't have gotten those debts.
So it's, it's, but it's fun that like,
it makes it okay for someone like me
to play kind of a bad guy.
So like I still do nice things, but like,
if I'm going to, you know, rob a cherry at once in a while
and turn it in for cash, well, I'm an outlaw.
That's what I'm supposed to do.
I could not stand that you could kill the prostitutes
and GTA to get your money back.
That just really sick of me.
That's the moral line that you draw.
You know what, I have a special place in my heart
for sex workers and they're just,
they're vulnerable people.
And it's just, it was so fucked up.
I think a lot, I mean, I, I only played those games.
I found those games really clunky to play.
And some of those mechanics have been worked out in Red Dead 2,
but like, I didn't even play the games because of that.
The whole thing was that like,
you could run around killing everybody.
Yeah, I know.
But the fact that like, everyone was like,
by the way, you can fuck the prostitutes,
get your health up and then kill her and take your money back.
I was like, fuck this game. That's just.
It's still illegal in the game.
You still get, you still get wanted.
Fuck this game.
No, that's fair.
If, you know what, if you didn't like,
get your money back or something,
just making that incentive be part of the game.
But that's not a real issue.
If you just hand it over to the cash,
it's still going to be on her body, right?
So, to hell with you, Steven.
No, no, I'm going to argue this, Steven.
If we wanted to be realistic,
you should have a chance of getting Chlamydia
every time you go with them,
and then your health would just go down every day.
Other people in the game, when you kill them,
do you loot their bodies and take what cash they have on their wallets?
Sometimes, yeah.
Doesn't their money explode out of them?
Like, and it shows up on the street?
Yeah, so.
Everyone has money.
Actually, the only safe people in GTA are the homeless.
There's nothing of value.
All right.
Okay, anyways, we are done.
Oh, yeah, we got to thank our patron.
That's right.
This week, is it my turn or your turn?
Uh, we've heard these, like, weeks apart,
and that's why we never remember whose turn it is.
Rock, paper, scissors.
Why don't we let Jess do it?
Jess!
Okay, hand me the...
Oh, one that I'm not sure if I can pronounce.
The patron this time is Jonathan DeWette,
and we want to thank you for being our patron,
and please don't leave Patreon over.
Or if you do, join...
Join the other patron that we're going to do.
Or consider giving us crypto from the strange crypto platform
that'll be the alternative soon.
All right.
We haven't got that set up yet, though, so...
No, it doesn't even exist yet.
Yeah, so that said, Inyasha,
are you going to keep using Patreon?
I know we're after the episode,
but like I mentioned,
we had one of our largest owners leave
because they're protesting what they did to Sargon of Akata
and what they're probably going to do to other people.
I'm still on Patreon.
It's hard, because I want...
I didn't follow Sam Harris to his website
to keep paying him there, so...
See, I would do the opposite.
Like, I want to keep supporting the people that I'm supporting,
but I don't want to support Patreon.
So if they had an option available,
if there's some other platform,
I would much rather support them through that other platform.
Or don't even directly.
Or, yeah, but that don't even directly is hard.
It is.
And I would, you know, encourage them to do that
because that would make me feel better.
Right on. I can take it.
All right, anyways, we're done.
So thanks, everyone.
We will see you in two weeks.
Bye.
Bye, everybody.
Thanks, everybody.
