And you take away the galactic center you take away the sun you take away the other planets you take away the gravitational field of the electromagnetic field or the bacteria and I don't exist.
So my consciousness is not an emergent property so imagine putting me in a complete and perfect vacuum and just imagine I didn't physically die for a moment which I of course would.
What would the sensory experience be there'd be no sensory input what would the contents of consciousness with no sensory input be.
I think in words that were developed by other people.
I think in images that were created by other people I.
All of the contents of my consciousness came from the world.
So the idea that it's my consciousness is just kind of sloppy thinking in the misnomer.
That's fantastic.
The fact that you are.
The tip of the finger which is the end of everything which came before which permitted you to be.
And still not just before.
And still continues to permit you to be.
Yeah turn the sun off.
Hi.
We were touching on.
Being present as being the thing that you are to chase in order to discover meaning or why is that why is that not purely the thing that you should.
You should seek and I think that you mentioned about narcissism and the fact that there's an interconnectedness with other people.
Whether I am.
Pursuing a state through racing cars or.
Doing cocaine or doing the right kind of psychedelics or meditation.
It's not that different.
It's.
Some kind of process I can find to give me some state of experience that I feel that I don't have and that I need to arrange the world a particular way for me to have.
Right.
So.
I remember this saying.
If I bring up the Bible or the Tao Te Ching all of the various wisdom traditions were interesting to me growing up so I'm not saying this in a way that people have to accept that book is anything other than interesting.
I remember there was a.
Quote in Luke attributed to Jesus that really bothered me as a kid.
And I came to understand really profound wisdom in it after contemplating it for a long time.
Right.
Maybe obvious for a lot of people said to those who have more shall be given and to those who don't have the little they have will be taken away.
And it really deeply bothered because of the context of it being in the Bible and something that someone like Jesus would say that I wanted to be Robin Hood like and say like no no no we'll we'll give to those who don't have.
And we can see where this is true just in terms of like if you have debt you get compounding interest in debt and if you have savings you get compounding interest in savings to those who have more is given to those who don't have a little they have is taken away.
It just ends up being something that shows up as true in lots of places.
When someone is in a state of not having around relationships and they feel lonely and upset with people and whatever they're not maximally attractive.
As a person in that state right when someone's in the kind of abundance of their relationships they show up in a way that's more attractive to those who have more is given.
Ultimately they have and not have our states of consciousness.
And so there is a place where I feel like I don't have enough and I'm some kind of empty needy thing that needs to get mine from the world.
Whatever that is more acknowledgement more money more muscle more knowledge more something more good state through meditation.
But I'm still basically coming from some kind of lack and what what's in it for me.
I think.
Okay so growth can happen in that place.
But there's a.
There's a place for that concert to shift.
Where I.
Stop thinking I need anything from the world in particular.
And there is a felt sense of.
Connection to life that has a fullness and dwelling within it.
And then what what do I get out of life stops being the relevant question.
And how do I pursue a particular state stops becoming the relevant question.
And.
Are there other people who are suffering who don't know how to shift it that I can do something about.
And are the things that I can create.
For the world starts to become a more interesting question.
And I think life kind of starts there.
I love it.
I love it.
It maps very closely onto the reality that I've.
Started to see slivers of I think.
Principally through this project but also through other things.
I think you've given a very robust framework for people to understand.
The interconnectedness the fact that you are because of everything that came before and everything which is still coming now.
The fact that.
You have the opportunity to.
Effect those around you in a way that allows you to make them more of them.
And less of the things that they don't want to be.
People are always going to weaponize in a.
Rivalrous capitalist economy people are always going to be able to weaponize.
Meaning seeking wisdom seeking.
A better life state change whatever it might be.
They're always going to be able to do that because there is going to be a reward for the people who are able to dangle that carrot.
And allow other people to go chasing after it.
But the fact that.
So many.
Of the pleasures that we have in life genuine pleasures that we have in life.
Come from such simple things.
Should be a signal to people.
It's a very subtle signal it's not as loud or as brash as a Lamborghini blasting past.
But it should be a signal to people.
Of where to look.
Right.
Like it should be.
This is where you should.
Point your attention.
Because.
Hadonic adaptation hadonic treadmill lottery winner versus person that loses their legs you know.
Pick your mental model with regards to that.
And yet if you.
Consistently connected with the people that were around you.
And.
Felt.
Like you were contributing to something that you genuinely felt.
Like you were contributing to something that you genuinely care about.
And we're progressing and we're still satisfying that airy review that wants to feel like growth.
Like everything else I think would fall into place and.
The.
Beauty of the extraordinary in the ordinary.
Is is something hopefully.
That as people develop themselves they start to strip away the things that they think.
That they need.
And I left with with something which is more.
More simple and more pure and I loved it the start I didn't I didn't bring it up but.
As you mentioned about sort of the tier one tier two tier three.
Of self development that really struck me about.
His dark materials which is a children's trilogy by Philip Pullman.
And in it there's a girl called Lyra Balakwa.
Gets the name Lyra silver tongue halfway through you can tell I.
Listen to it and read it a lot as a kid.
And.
She's given this truth telling device called an elite theometer.
And she's given it and the.
Nuns in the Oxford of the universe that she lives in it's a multiverse.
Story then the nuns of the the university that she lives in.
Tell her this story about how people need to study for their entire lives.
After study for my entire life the people who have these devices have to study for.
Books and books arcane texts they have to understand all of these different things and then they can read them.
And she's she's given one in secret and it turns out that she can read it she's never learned to.
She can read it so she has natural grace she has unconscious competence.
And she's able to read it which you could draw an analogy to experiencing life the purity of experiencing life as a child.
There's a Luke Coombs song which opens up at 17 you don't think that much about life you just live it.
And I think that's the same then she hits puberty and as she hits puberty.
She loses the ability to read this truth telling device she loses that.
Conscious on competence she becomes aware it's the fall from grace it's.
And then there's this like tiny little passage towards the end of the book.
And she's speaking to somebody another one of the nuns about how am I going to get the ability to tell the truth back from from my device from the elitometer.
And she says my dear child it will take you a lifetime of study.
But the depth of your understanding will be deeper and greater than it ever ever was before.
Conscious competence.
And I think that timeline maps sort of quite nicely onto what I hope personal development self development actually ends up being for people.
Yeah there's definitely a presence that we see in children that can be overjoyed and fulfilled with the experience of life.
And this is the in no way except you turn and become like little children she passed on the king of heaven.
And to be able to have a connectedness with life that isn't always seeking.
What stimulus is going to fulfill me next.
With adult capacities that can actually show up to the world is very interesting.
There was a I saw Jordan Peterson live a couple of years ago.
And they were reading questions out from Twitter that had been submitted Dave Rubin goes up on stage and asking these questions.
And one of the questions that somebody asked him was that essentially boiled down to the depth of my consciousness causes me to suffer.
I wish that I thought less I wish that I didn't consider things so much.
It is both a blessing and occurs to feel things so very deeply.
And Jordan's answer to that stuck with me which was that you can try and regress back to a more animalistic more simple time which would be people looking at children and being envy of their innocence.
Right and thinking look at how simple it is looking at their dog and thinking look how simple it would be if I was just a dog.
You know I just lie in the sun and play with balls and stuff like that.
But you don't have that option and Jordan gave this really symbolic answer as he often does.
And he said you can take more of the poison until you girdle it into a tonic that allows you to rule your own world.
And I really like that I like the idea that it's not about escaping from Dante's Inferno.
It's about going through every single level right to the very very bottom and that's where you then sort of break it all open.
Danny man I feel like we could go on for forever but for me it's 11 a.m. and for you it's 3 a.m.
So I feel like I sadly need to let you go.
It's been a dude it's been six months since we've been planning this and I'm so grateful for you coming on.
Can I share a closing thought? Absolutely.
Every emotion has a value and has a place.
And so someone has an idea that a more developed human state never has sadness or anger or fear.
Then their idea of a more developed human state is a sociopath.
Because the key kind of definition in sociopathy is can't feel fear and remorse and guilt and certain negative emotions which is why they can hurt people so easily.
So if I'm angry I'm angry because maybe I can process it better and I can right.
Maybe I can I made up some fake meanings and I'm angry about something that didn't even really happen.
I kind of took what that person said the wrong way.
But in so far as I'm there's a real thing and I'm responding to it and anger is rising.
It's that there's something that I care about or that I love that I think somebody's harming and I'm focused on who's harming.
I'm angry about litter because actually there's a care for nature in the environment that is the basis of that.
Or someone turning an animal or a kid or whatever it is and anger rises.
So the basis of the anger is love.
If there wasn't something I loved and cared about I just wouldn't give a shit.
Go ahead and hurt it.
And if I'm afraid I'm afraid that something that I care about is going to be harmed.
So again the basis of the fear is love.
The same with sadness same with all.
So there are times where based on what's going on in the world.
Some anger arises and I wouldn't want to feel any other way.
Like there would be something wrong with me if I felt a different way.
Because I'm not making up stories I'm not reactive and I want to go hurt someone or whatever.
But there is a there is an authentic love and care for the world that also is noticing and injustice and that it expresses to that emotion.
And me feeling that in that moment is actually me and wholeness and relationship with life rightly.
So am I pursuing always being in a particular kind of happy state?
Nope.
Because that would be shutting off all of the intelligence that the various emotions that are giving me real information about reality are.
There is a certain kind of wholeness where I'm not driven by I can experience desire in a version but I'm not driven automatically by it.
I don't automatically think I don't automatically react because I'm afraid of something or have to get something I want.
I can actually just access okayness.
That's important.
But yeah I just on this topic of should we all be seeking those states.
Well yes sometimes.
And like we were mentioning about but you know even in the moment where someone's feeling really angry at an injustice they're not questioning the meaning of life.
That's also an experience of aliveness they might be feeling meaningfulness very fucking clearly in that moment.
And so does one want to actually have their emotional self and in addition to their cognitive self connected with reality yes.
And so does someone want to have some actual presence in that connection yes but that looks like all the things.
What a wonderful way to start my day and to finish yours.
I hope that we don't have to rearrange a million more times but I absolutely love to have you back on man whenever whenever we can make time.
It was really really fun I enjoyed the conversation with you and if it's something that your listeners find interesting and they have more questions and I'm happy to come back.
Fantastic thank you so much Daniel.
