Wisdom is not algorithmic and cannot be made algorithmic you can't have a if this than that algorithm that actually equals wisdom and if you can then we're just a intermediate bootloader for the a is there better creatures in us right.
Daniel I I'm very impressed that we finally managed to get this recording sorted not only between time difference challenges or me needing to rearrange or a global pandemic were finally here we finally got each other on the line.
Yeah the global pandemics fuck up our schedule sometimes it's very inconvenient yeah it's incredibly inconvenient you know I'm so as you're aware we talk a lot on this podcast about self development and you help people to make sense of the world sense making preventing global catastrophic risks so in light of the way that the world is at the moment.
What are your thoughts about how people can develop themselves whilst still ensuring that we have a functioning world that isn't isn't risky.
We can go like a million places with that question and so we'll just start and see what happens.
Even the topic of personal development.
What that means is pretty ambiguous the idea of development means that something can progress to some stage of more refinement or more capacity.
And so we know what that means in mathematics or in playing classical piano or weightlifting right there's some sense of progressive development but what does it mean for a person to develop beyond early adulthood we also have a very clear sense that children go through developmental stages.
Of increasing their cognitive and social and linguistic and motor and all these types of capacities but then when does that stop.
Does it have to stop there's a development of more skills but what does becoming a more developed human being fundamentally mean is a philosophic is spiritual religious existential question.
And so the question of what is a meaningful human life is underneath that.
And then how do I effectively develop myself aligned with what is most meaningful.
And when I'm asking what is a meaningful human life there's not just my own experience but how do I relate to the whole of life how does the meaningfulness of life relate to both what I experience and also what I contribute to the experience of others.
And so when we think about the current world situation does the world situation we're in create a context for what kinds of human development are relevant within the general parameters of some universal truths and.
It certainly does because what the world needs if we want to really effectively serve to protect against unnecessary harm and to increase the quality of life it needs different skills that it needed a thousand years ago.
And it needs different it actually needs totally different kinds of minds and sense making in many ways.
And then some aspects of it are obviously going to be the same across lots of contexts like the refinement of our clarity in our own motivation.
And our own emotional resilience and things like that.
I think the motivation is an interesting one to start on which is as soon as you have a concept of human development and there's some concept of more developed and you can conceptually understand that to try and orient yourself.
Then.
There becomes an inherent comparison with other people of are they comprehensively more developed human than I am.
And or am I more than they are and is my thinking that I'm more than they are some sign of ego which is actually a sign of low development.
In some particular way.
And it's easy to cognitively understand what some higher stage of development would express like.
And be able to act it without it actually being real.
And so as soon as there's you know you read David Deiden you have the an authentic man is such and such or a embodied woman is such and such or whatever you can just start acting that.
And having it be totally not real and having.
A bunch of personal development mimicking.
For basically status seeking.
And what's underneath that the status seeking impulse which is usually.
Fundamental insecurities is actually not healing itself which with the real personal development would be it's actually doubling down on itself and building up a presentation package and whether it's I'm rich or I'm buff.
Or I'm enlightened just depends on the subculture you're appealing to.
That is a very hard red pill to swallow.
And I couldn't agree more the.
There's a quote from Ben Bergeron who says that character will always beat strategy is a CrossFit coach.
And I think what he's talking about there is the virtue of doing the thing because it's the thing that you want to do.
From your inner most being as opposed to doing the thing because that's what you think you should do based on what you've been told so that you can then signal that you are a person who has these virtues it's.
Cart horse or horse cart.
When you mention.
Virtue signaling.
Which will obviously show up very differently in different cultures right that I'm a good Republican versus I'm a good Democrat is going to have totally it'll be repulsive to the people of the different tribe.
Or religions or different types of aesthetics.
From an evolutionary biology perspective it's mostly just made signaling.
And so whether it's a hundred and fifty foot super yacht or it's.
You know having read all the books in a particular space and presenting yourself in a way that we say OK well where is that imperative to want people to respond to me in a particular way.
Well it has something to do with power dynamics in a tribe and largely basically.
Mate signaling is the evolutionary origin of it.
It's valuable to just admit that.
And just kind of reflect on it to say.
The more I can reflect on the biological predispositions that arise the less I'm controlled by them.
And I don't want to be ashamed of a repress them or just automatically go with them.
Right because they gave rise to the capacity for abstraction and the abstraction can give rise to higher order interests.
In the base interests.
So this is actually a very valuable thing in personal development.
Is.
Just taking the time to very deeply earnestly inquire into your motive.
And OK I'm wanting to develop in this way why.
Is because mostly the wise are actually lies right.
I believe that when I'm buff then I will dot dot dot and it's and it's not going to be true right so the thing happens and then it's just some other set of goals and.
And so.
Typically whenever someone is going about doing some.
Project to help the world or develop themselves or whatever.
They usually have mixed motives.
They have like a dozen different motives driving them.
And they're usually only aware of half of them.
And they'll usually only admit like one or two of them.
And.
And but this will affect your results and your trustworthiness because those motives will pull in different ways.
And so let's say.
I'm trying to develop myself as someone who's more capable of making a difference in the world and so I'm doing some alleviating poverty project.
And the mission statement of why we're doing this is because these kids don't have shoes and they don't have food and we need to bring it to them and we care.
That might actually be true like I might actually care as one of the 12 or so motives that has me doing that I might also need to make some money in this nonprofit is a way that I can make some money I also might want to.
Feel successful in a different way and this hits a certain idea of what will make me feel successful.
And then there might be a bunch of stuff that's unconscious like.
Insecurity from childhood in school and still wanting to hear that I did a good job that my parents didn't give me or that they did project it on to the rest of the world.
The degree to which you can just really watch that right just watch the things that are rising in the mind and they'll show up when you notice where who you're comparing yourself with and where you feel jealousies.
Which is something that you think that you're wanting that someone else is getting socially or whatever.
And just in reflecting then you can ask yourself the question.
So which of these seem like they're coming from wholeness like from from the deepest wholeness.
The deepest wholeness version of myself I could imagine and which of them feel like they're more coming from insecurity or woundedness.
And if I imagine myself growing in my wholeness which of these would deepen and which would lessen.
And then of the ones that would lessen you can just ask if this wasn't there at all how would my life be different.
Like the desire that people like me or whatever it is just wasn't there at all.
And that doesn't mean to pathologize it just you just get it inquire in that and notice how does it move you.
And maybe some ways that it moves you are fine but it's good to at least be clear on it.
Are those some of the signals that people can use to identify that because the pernicious thing about our subconscious is that we're not conscious of it.
Not without doing a tremendous amount of introspective work time in solitude and all that sort of stuff.
So are there any signals that people can say that's that's that thing manifesting again.
Yeah I mean I think a lot of people if they just make time kind of already know what some of the signals are.
Say there's a project you want to do and you want to do it because it actually feels intrinsically meaningful.
Right there's a real intrinsic motive.
And you think about someone else getting credit for it you're not getting credit for it versus you getting credit for it you just or you even notice in the process of a conversation.
Where there is a credit seeking impulse arising you.
And you say oh that impulse and the impulse to actually serve are not the same impulse those are two different impulses that are both arising.
And then maybe they can be made to be two sled dogs pulling in the same direction but they might be sled dogs pulling in opposite directions.
Because sometimes the way I can serve the project best is to let someone else take credit so they work harder to make the thing happen.
And this is why you know if you read the doubt a chain as a book of leadership almost it just says that thing again and again the best leaders the one that nobody even knows is leading who doesn't want to lead.
Who other people push to lead because they trust them and really just empowers everyone else.
I get it so thinking about what this means for people on a broader scale what it means for an individual to understand their motivations toward leading a good life.
I think one of the key insights that I've had from spending time exposed to this sort of content is that I.
Didn't for a long time and still mostly don't know what I want to want truthfully.
It's a very hard question to answer.
Yeah there's a in processes in the process of development of becoming more self-reflexively aware.
So at first you're living in a particular way and you aren't even really reflecting on if that's the right way to be living right.
And then you start reflecting on you realize oh I'm actually behaving ways that go against the things that I want.
And so I'm getting angry or I'm getting jealous or I'm whatever it is that isn't who I really want to be.
And this is kind of like tier one mimetics and personal development.
Let me see if I can work on changing that.
And some people will start to realize well that pattern of being angry or being habituated or whatever being lazy was conditioned in me.
Because had I grown up with the Sioux Indians or with the Machiganga tribe or whatever I would be different right.
Like there's no question that there would be a lot about me that's different.
So I don't want to just be the kind of default byproduct of how I happen to grow up that I didn't even really have a say in where I chose.
So can I recondition and it's like yeah I can recondition it.
Then there's some more reflection it says so I can recondition my behaviors to be more aligned with what I want and what I value.
They're like fuck what I want what I value was conditioned also.
Because do I want to be a good Christian or I want to be a good Muslim or I want to be a good Hindu or a good scientist.
Do I want to be a Wall Street banker or a good family man.
Do I that was probably also conditioned right all the way down to your your metaphysical framework for what reality is and what the good life is in there.
Now you've entered the heart of existentialism because you're asking what is worth wanting.
And then you have to say well what is the basis to answer that that wasn't just conditioned.
Is there some deeper than my conditioning basis can I pierce through the conditioning.
And so what I'm trying to ask is is there anything intrinsically meaningful about the nature of reality that I can come to understand.
That is beyond where I happen to have been conditioned where regardless of where I would have been conditioned this is something I could come to.
And it turns out that there are meaningful ways to address that.
Tell us that's what we're here for Daniel we are here to to find out about that.
There's different ways of approaching this that have validity so I'm not going to say what the truth of a meaningful life is but I'll say some.
Ways that I have found and that others I have seen have found that are meaningful and also acknowledge you can walk.
One or multiple of these paths.
I forget the author there's a famous quote the heart knows reasons that reason knows nothing of.
And there is a kind of poetic artistic answer to the question which is it just is.
Right there's a deep there's a sense of this is meaningful because it'll serve this and then that because this and then at a certain level there's a sense of just prima facia it just is and like life.
Life is fundamentally meaningful and worth serving why.
Just it's right there's no deeper explanation that adds more clarification than that it is based on your own direct experience of.
Your experience of a liveness feeling intrinsically meaningful and then you're sensing the depth of other people's experience of life and seeing that that's meaningful in your desire to serve life in that way and it just.
And so the answer there is not really a deep philosophical inquiry it's more about a felt experience.
That's great.
And you know the first verse of the Tao Te Ching is that the knowledge that is knowable is not the eternal knowledge and the Dow that is speakable is not the eternal Dow.
Which means the to translate the meaning or the purpose of everything that you can describe in words isn't really it.
Because it's fundamentally trans semantic.
Semantic is a symbol that has a very finite meaning that is supposed to represent a certain ground right like the word Apple references Apple you know.
But when I'm talking about meaningfulness of reality there is no word that can actually hold the ground of everything.
And so there can be though a certain kind of felt sense of connectedness with it.
Now we can also think about it more and come up with better answers and it's actually nice when we do both of these and there's a confluence of the deepening of our own felt connection and the deepening of the clarity of how we understand it.
So some people go to landmark and it starts with well I don't want to say what landmark says.
There are some systems that would will say reality is fundamentally meaningless.
And that's empowering and beautiful because you get to create the meaning.
There isn't some a priori God that said this is how you win the race at the end and either get it right or you get it wrong by some you know predefined definition that can feel empowering.
There's actually some kind of metaphysics smuggled in there which is to say you get to create the meaning is still actually holding some concept of meaningfulness and the value on your own creativity.
Right so there it's not actually doing the deeper inquiry to say well why do I value choice why do I value creativity and what is the basis for meaningfulness my own assessment.
So again those are just in prima facie held as meaningful.
So science is a process of trying to come to understand the objective world in a way that goes beyond my own subjective sense of what it is which means beyond my conditioning and my bias right.
And so I might think that sound travels faster than light at room temperature and air.
So I set up an experiment and measure it and I find out that it just doesn't and then I can do that 100 times or a million times and other people can do it we can use different apparatus and there is a the measurability and the repeatability gives us a certain sense of the objectivity of it right.
Well so science has done a very good job of giving us a framework for is what is that is not based on what I think is.
It doesn't it hasn't given us the same basis for what ought to be and there is this classic division between science and ethics or science and existentialism and called the is ought distinction science can say what is it can't say what ought because it's not.
The process of science is a process of observing and measuring observable things which are inherently third person objects and then being able to find patterns of regularities expressed that I can express in something like math.
And so it pertains to the domain of the things that are measurable and repeatable.
Our experience isn't measurable.
It's feelable it's first person not third person they're fundamentally different categories right.
You say well no your measure your experience is measurable because we can measure brain waves it's not measuring the experience that's measuring a brain state that happens to correlate with your felt experience.
But someone who studies the neuroscience of EEG is who's looking at the brain pattern of a Zen meditator can look at that and has no idea what the experience is like.
And so the fact that there might be some neural correlates to experience doesn't mean you're measuring the experience it means there's some neural correlate right but that's still the domain of third person which is fundamentally never first person.
So first person is outside of the domain of science formally.
This is important because it says science is not a method of knowing all of reality.
It's a method of knowing parts of reality and there's parts of reality that are rigorously outside of the methods of science.
But we want something like we had with science which was a better process of knowing.
And so are there better processes of knowing about the nature of first person and the nature of the relationship between first person and third person because a meaningful life is going to involve the nature of the world.
It's also going to involve the nature of my experience and it's going to involve the relationship between me and the world.
Right well that's at least three different ontological categories third person first person and the relationship between the two which is neither third person nor first person.
So that requires a more robust philosophy that includes but transcends the philosophy of science.
So let's say we just look at a kind of scientific story we can frame this lots of different ways is it a lot of people have.
Made a universe story based on a limited part of science and then kind of made a metaphysical story related to it like they'll take the second law of thermodynamics increasing entropy and say OK.
So there's a lot of energy at the Big Bang and basically the universe is running down and will eventually turn into just a cold vacuum and die in a big freeze kind of heat death.
And so the metaphysics of universe is just this very slow inexorable march towards nothingness.
Now if all there was of science was the second law you might do that but that's obviously pretty silly.
And there's a lot of things that aren't explained by that at all.
And people will take evolutionary biology and talk about make a metaphysical answer that's all about becoming apex predators and dog eat dog kind of stuff and whatever right.
That's actually an important one to address because it's still very pernicious worldview.
Nature is kind of just cruel and optimizing it.
Anyone who spent time in nature and watched predation knows that it's pretty fucking cruel and the things that are the fittest and the fittest can involve effective cruelty survive.
And so humans following suit of that being capable of understanding Darwinian kind of process should seek to be as fit as they can be and that that's just being part of the natural order of things.
And that's not you know of every species the weak ones dying and getting cold is actually what strengthens the genetics and drives evolution forward so that cruelty the predator usually taking the weak prey out more is actually what's making the prey better.
Because they're getting the weak genes out and so then the stronger genes come slightly faster lion that eats the slow gazelle makes getting out gazelle slower over long periods of time so ultimately predatory dynamics violence winning competition is what drives all good things in progress and like that.
That's a very classic very narrow idea that takes one very tiny part of science and tries to blow it up to be the meta frame and then interpret it in a way that people wanted to interpret anyways to basically justify shit that was that they wanted to do.
I won't say the name, but a couple of people that are amongst the most powerful people in the world in terms of high finance have basically quoted almost all of this to me verbatim in conversations as how they see the world.
And, and they said, you know, either like basically apex predators to find the topology of the space.
And so either you're the apex predator or somebody else's but the apex predators are going to be the one who runs shit.
And if you don't like that you just won't be one of the ones who run shit.
One of the guys said pretty directly said, if you all animals are either predators or prey and predators don't feel bad when they kill prey.
And if you feel bad when the prey humans die, then you just said what kind of animal you are and that animal doesn't run the world.
And the of the predators who don't make it to alpha apex, they also aren't the ones whose genes really go and run the world.
And if you don't like the way the alpha apex are, it won't make any difference because they'll still be the ones who run the world.
You just won't be part of it.
And, you know, this the same conversation went to other places about why the Holocaust was a good thing for Jews.
And because they got the state of Israel and nukes and antisemitism became a bad word and etc.
Like thinking about, you can see what that worldview does, right?
The worldview makes people to think like that.
Those conversations wouldn't go to much darker places too.
Can I ask, how did you feel hearing those sorts of concepts come from people who not only can imagine it from an armchair philosophy perspective,
but actually have the power to be able to wield it in the real world as well?
