If that doesn't happen, then it'll replicate and usually kill the body.
So when we start to think about the staging of the immune function and what that represents as a basis for thinking about judicial type process,
the basis of it should be identify what makes people orient towards harming the commons,
towards violence, towards sociopathy, towards greed,
and also identify what conditions the best qualities in humans and try to support all humans to have better development, right?
Then there is a protective function.
If people are harming other people, how do we prevent the harm from happening and how do we try to actually rehabilitate, which is the corrective force?
And it's only if rehabilitation can happen that some ongoing protection from that being able to continue to cause harm has to occur.
But when you look, okay, so you don't go kill people in Nigeria to advance your oil interests the way a Nigerian oil lord does.
But you buy gas for your car or whatever the equivalent is, right?
Which is ultimately paying the supply chain to do the thing it does, which means paying the Nigerian warlord to do wetworks at some part of the supply chain.
You might never do the kind of gruesome torture that happens inside of a factory farm,
but you might go to a restaurant and buy something that came from a factory farm, which is paying someone to do those wetworks.
And so there starts to be this deepened responsibility question of, oh, I'm affecting the world at scale in a way I'm not seeing through the supply chains I'm interacting with.
And so now there's harm that's being caused that I'm not standing up to, and I'm also complicit with.
And it's not the job of the police to stop that because it's granted by law that that can happen, but it's not right law.
Right law wouldn't allow a factory farm, you know, or those other things to occur.
So then we have to say, so what is mine to do to actually see the injustices and harms and problems in the world?
What is mine to actually step up and resolve?
That's also an important part of the question.
Very symbolic. I like the analogy to the cancer cells.
I'm going back two years ago to an episode I did with Corey Allen, a meditation teacher.
And he had this analogy where he thinks when someone gets angry with him, as a conversant, you know, someone cuts him off in traffic or something happens or cuts in line at the checkout.
And then you can see that itching for to vent.
And he treats that anger like a pathogen like a flu virus.
And what he thinks in his mind is I wonder where that came from.
Like I wonder what the heritage of that anger is, like who passed it on to you, then who passed it on to them, then who passed it on to them, then where did that emerge from?
And that's the interconnectedness, right?
Yeah.
It's the interconnectedness. It's a basis for compassion and understanding.
And it's also an immune function to keep yourself from getting infected.
Because if you get pissed off back at them and you understand it as a pathogen, you'll realize that you actually just lost your sovereignty and just got infected.
And if you see that as, you know, I don't want to get infected, then you're like, oh, that means I'm going to relate to this differently.
You can also be a be a little bit of a bookend as well, right?
If that is part of a cathartic venting procedure that allows that person to drop their anger down by X percent, but you don't then pass, you don't hold that rock and then pass it on.
Then through being conscious through the mindfulness gap of being aware of the trigger that's happened, you can let that go.
You can reduce the entropy in the system, I guess you could say it as.
Is that a way to put it?
Yeah. There's a fine point of nuance here, which is not going into reaction about someone else's poor behavior also doesn't mean condoning it and doesn't mean not having boundaries.
It's actually very important to be able to say, I know that that person does that abusive behavior because they were hurt when they were a kid.
I know that wasn't their fault. I actually feel a ton of compassion for that kid.
I know they had a head injury in war, right?
And that's really fucked them up and they still can't do that to me.
And so I love them.
I forgive them and I won't let them do that anymore.
It's a difficult line to balance.
I had a neuroscientist on talking about the neuroscience underpinning the seven deadly sins.
Very interesting, very cool rework of that guy called Jack Lewis, British guy.
And everything, all of them were in moderation, but not too much.
In moderation, but not too much.
Seneca's virtuous mean in moderation, but not too much.
And it is so hard. We are absolutist creatures.
If you put a packet of biscuits in front of me and say I can eat none or I can eat all of them, both of those situations are fine by me.
If you say that I can only have one or like half a biscuit torture.
Yeah. And so this process of the balance of right boundaries and right compassion.
There is no algorithm for it to get it right.
There isn't like a general rule of thumb that is always the right answer.
It's something you actually have to think about and feel into each situation, the instantiation of that situation, and you wrestle with it.
There are plenty of times where someone does the tough love thing to a friend or a family member that has addiction going on and that's what it took for the person to finally turn around.
Plenty of other times where someone does the tough love thing and the person just goes and kills themselves.
And that same person had they got to supported another therapy or rehab clinic or whatever could have turned around.
And so what the right answer is is not like if you have a very fast default, it's probably wrong.
It's something that you have to really take the time to reflect into what is actually called for here and then reflect into what are my biases and my biasing in a I don't want to take their burden on or biasing in a code dependent.
I must take it on direction. That's going to make me less clear.
It makes me think about the is an art distinction that you brought up and also about what self development is at its very core, which is trying to model an effective way to operate within the world.
It's trying to make as scientific as possible the way that you behave the way that I behave.
Sometimes the way that we behave there's books about relationships and friendship and stuff like that.
But mostly it tends to be personal sovereignty up with mobility agency stuff like that.
But as you've just identified there in that situation, like there is no one size fits all.
There is no objective way to decide what the life that you should lead is what your definition of a good life is it's.
Got a shaky foundation evolutionarily it's got a very biased foundation culturally and socially you know.
That is what we're trying to achieve what is the best way for me to operate within this world but there is no.
There is no universal answer to that there's better and there's worse.
But better by who worse by who you know you can you can run this back as far as you want.
Yeah.
So I would say that.
Wisdom is not algorithmic and cannot be made algorithmic.
You can't have a if this than that algorithm that actually equals wisdom.
And.
And if you can.
Then we're just a intermediate bootloader for the AIs that are better creatures than us right.
I could actually go through some long derivations as to why I think consciousness is not computational not purely computational but there's something happening in consciousness that is fundamentally trans computational.
So strong computationalism is the idea that computation is both necessary and sufficient for consciousness mind and universe and I believe that's false.
So there is something to the nature of choice and thus also good choice ethics that can be informed by lots of different principles and considerations but not perfectly prescribed.
And this is why.
At lower stages of development when people can't hold as much complexity and as much nuance with as much awareness sometimes they need just simple rules to not go off the rails.
So you think of the 10 commandments as rules like that right.
If you need to know don't kill anybody and don't rape anybody and don't the doldrum whatever like okay we'll tell you those things don't do that like the society will be better if people don't do those things.
But then you notice New Testament comes along and Jesus gives a different kind of teaching right.
Do unto others as you'd have them do unto you love thy neighbor as thyself it actually doesn't tell you what to do.
It isn't to do something or don't do something it's actually consider something a certain way.
So try to put yourself into the shoes of whoever you're about to act and ask how you would feel engage in empathy.
So it's an ethic that guides the guidance is consider something but not do this or don't do that so it's ultimately not prescriptive but there's still wisdom that can be offered.
So there's a lot of kind of general principles that we can offer that support wisdom but it's not reducible to prescription.
Now this is also something about personal development if one is wanting to grow in wisdom is it doesn't look like do this thing.
And so you also can't signal it very effectively by doing a particular thing.
I mean someone could even try to signal aligned with what I just said right they could say let me consider that as just some kind of signaling.
What I'm talking about like is a depth of earnestness of what do I actually care about and why do I care about it and how do I reflect on what I believe to be both true and meaningful right now.
And what is right action factoring what I understand to be true and what I understand to be meaningful and how certain am I on what I think is true and how bias am I and what I think is meaningful and can I refine those as well.
It surprises me that we're even able to get out of bed in the morning.
Like should I why I mean is this maybe I don't know I mean do I take the covers off with my left hand do I take the covers off with my right hand but this is the job of the ego right and this is part of I suppose the usefulness of the fact that we are still in some part primitive creatures.
That it allows us to have sufficient momentum to overcome the inertia that a constant rolling existential crisis would stop us from from being able to do.
The rolling existential crisis.
Which I grew up with.
Mostly comes.
Joseph Campbell had some nice quote something about that.
I'm getting the quote wrong but paraphrasing that people wonder about the purpose of life when they aren't engaged in the experience of feeling alive.
I love that.
And that and this is that prima facie thing that we were talking about.
In.
Moments of full engagement with reality right whether it's fascination learning something or odd the beauty of something or whatever it is is typically not when people are in existential angst wondering what's meaningful or not because it is it is it's present it is it is.
Indwelling within the experience right the meaningfulness is eminent.
Now if I'm disconnected from feeling the meaningfulness of life no thought will replace that feeling.
And so then.
You know separate I can say well what's what's the purpose of life well it's to learn what's the fucking purpose of learning well because you grow what's the purpose of that well then you can do more what's the purpose and there's no end to that right there's no terminal value that you get to where you don't say why.
Why that.
And that's because what we're trying it's it's actually just a ridiculous question it's saying what part of reality.
Is why all of it.
Right that's the question if I'm trying to say the purpose of reality is its love or its growth or its awakening or whatever it is I'm trying to I'm trying to take some little simple part I can conceptualize.
And make that the ordinating basis of everything.
Which is just actually silly.
Right.
You notice that purpose is a utilitarian concept the purpose of X is why.
The purpose of my job is I do this function at the business well if I if okay I do the marketing at the business or the accounting or the whatever it is well if I assume the business existing matters.
I then it makes sense why me doing that thing matters but it's utilitarian right assuming the value of why then I can say X relative to it.
But purpose is always extrinsic relational utilitarian.
So if I say what is the purpose of all of reality what is their outside of reality to ground that in reference to.
So it's just actually an ill formed question because purpose is a smaller concept than reality is.
So yes reality doesn't have a purpose in the sense that anything within reality does but it's also not purpose less in the way that we think of purposelessness of things inside of reality is that the concept is too small to apply.
Do you know where I have my existential crises it's when I'm in the supermarket at three a.m. every time every time I get in there if I've been at work and I finished finished at the club.
And there's this big state change from it being loud and full of havoc and then I'm on my way home and I realized that I don't have X for tomorrow.
And then that's when it strikes me when I'm in the supermarket you totally correct it doesn't happen when you're sat with the people that you care about it doesn't happen when you're on your morning walk and just considering what it feels like to have the sun on your skin.
You know those aren't the times so does that not mean that seeking those experiences.
Where we do feel connected and we do feel present.
Is that why is that not the north star for how we should spend our lives.
First I would love to suggest that you go to the grocery store at three a.m. a few times on purpose.
To have the most meaningful connection with the people who are there you possibly can.
Go with that intention to transcend the the crisis.
Well you have a Pavlovian conditioning now associated with that right you've had that experience there enough times that just going there triggers it.
And you can recondition that.
And you can recognize having choice and agency that in a place where you're questioning meaningfulness you can bring it.
Yeah that's beautiful.
And it may simply be.
Acknowledgement to one of the people who are working there it may be a deeper conversation but.
I've had so many experiences having a conversation with the person driving Uber for me instead of being on my phone.
That ended up being profoundly enlightening and some of whom are friends years later.
So it's interesting what happens when you explore.
A hundred percent.
I mean this is before we get on to should we seek being present.
This is the.
Probably the most.
Meaningful.
The most meaningful.
The most important one of the most important changes I've made over the last few years as someone who's an only child who spends a lot of time in solitude working who is comfortable with my own company overly comfortable with my own company.
Learning the.
Fulfillment and the pleasure that comes from connecting with other people.
For no reason other than they're there and that they are there and you can connect with them.
Has been such a huge change like a ridiculously big change for me and it sounds so stupid.
You know especially if you grew up with that five brothers and sisters and you all see each other every Christmas and do whatever maybe your world view and mine.
You can't really understand why I wouldn't think that that would be a good thing to do but I'm telling you that I did.
Telling you that it was very much a single focused.
Lack of just lack of even awareness of other people not even a consideration had I have been aware I probably would have considered.
But it was incredibly blinkers on and.
Yeah man like.
So this answers the question you were starting to ask.
Great about pursuing a state.
Okay.
That can be done narcissistically.
And it won't produce a meaningful life.
Why.
So.
So.
You run a thought experiment.
Everybody in the world dies and you're here by yourself.
But.
You can have like a fighter jet and Lamborghinis and like whatever mansion you want.
There's just nobody else here.
Most people when they take time to really run through that scenario.
Try to figure out how to entertain themselves with experiences for a while.
And then fundamentally can't find meaningfulness in it.
And to the extent they can it's because they have the idea of a God which is still a being they're relating with or they get really friendly with animals.
But ultimately consciousness wants to be in relationship with consciousness and is the basis of any way someone reifies meaningfulness.
Do you think that's fundamental to consciousness or do you think that that's embedded due to the social animals that we are and that every other animal is.
Both.
Interesting.
Can you can you talk me through your thinking with regards to how it's fundamental to consciousness.
So we think of consciousness associated with an organism.
Like a person maybe a dog whatever.
And we think of them having some kind of separate consciousness associated with that brain and that body container.
And so that consciousness is just is the emergent property of their brain or it dwells in it or something like that.
This is this is a really deeply flawed concept.
Because inside of my body brain package that I call I physically that I think my consciousness associated with.
Doesn't include all of the coral reef.
And doesn't include all of the plants and doesn't include the soil microbiome.
I don't think of those as I but I wouldn't exist without all of them.
So can I say that my consciousness is an emergent property of this thing without saying it's an emergent property of all of that.
Because this thing is an emergent property of all of that.
And so without the plants I'm not even an idea.
Right like there isn't even a well formed concept of me that exists without an atmosphere and oxygen.
And without the sun and without the other planets that keep the asteroids from hitting us and without just keep going on and we find the entire universe is configured in a way that I'm the emergent property of a part of it.
