Was that distressing to hear, to sit down opposite somebody and hear that?
Yeah, super distressing at first.
It was something I didn't have, I didn't have a reference frame for from how I grew up.
And that also meant I didn't understand critical things about the world that are important if you actually want to be able to make a difference to things in the world.
And so one of the things that I started noticing was how much there are certain psychological dispositions that seek power more than others,
and that are also willing to use power in ways that give them more power, including by disempowering everybody else.
And that those people have ended up being the people with most power most of the time.
What are the most effective?
They're the ones that are prepared to go to the places where other people's sense of empathy or virtue or inner compass or whatever it might be would stop them before that.
Right, so effective at a specific thing and a specific thing that ends up winning in a natural selection of violence.
And so you might have a peaceful culture that is way more effective at producing happy people and producing kind people and living in harmony with the land,
but Genghis Khan or Alexander the Great or whatever will come slaughter them and take their space and take their stuff.
And so then the means that go on are the means that were effective at winning in a natural selection of warfare.
It ends up being that if you that drives an arms race, right, because then somebody becomes better at war,
so somebody else has to get those same weapons plus the counter weapons plus better weapons.
And eventually you get an exponential curve where it turns into AI-empowered drones and bio weapons and et cetera.
And it's actually too big to use any of the weapons safely and you destroy the whole world.
And that's why I work on catastrophic risk is the pattern of how we have made it through the local issues is actually what's driving the global issues currently.
That kind of rival risk be the apex predator kind of thing at scale is actually destroying the capability for civilization to keep going on period.
And so this apex predator thing, we're not apex predators.
That's just gibberish.
This is a really important thing.
I'd like people to understand.
An orca is an apex predator, right?
Killer whale.
Top predator in their environment or polar bear or tiger, right?
There's lots of apex predators we could pick.
But an orca is like the biggest one you can think of.
So they're a good example.
An orca can catch one fish at a time, right?
It's going to go catch one tuna and it's going to miss most of the time or one seal.
It can't take a mile long drift net and pull up 100,000 tuna at once, which we can now with industrialized dredge net kind of fishing.
That's not the power of an apex predator, right?
A polar bear can kill one walrus at a time and it's fucking dangerous to do that and it's pretty hard to do.
It can't slash and burn an acre of forest a second, right?
Or be able to do mountaintop removal mining or factory farm whole species of animal and hybridized new species and extinct species.
So that's not the power of apex predators.
That's the power of gods.
We're just shitty gods.
If we say, do apex predators have the ability to extinct whole species quickly and destroy whole ecosystems and make new ecosystems and genetically engineer new species?
No, that's not something that Darwinian process has anything to do with, right?
And so you think about if a polar bear got really pissed and went on a tirade and tried to break all that it could, how much harm could it do compared to Trump or Putin with nukes, right?
Like compared to 1F15.
So then you say, well, who has the ability to make new species and destroy species and make new environments and destroy them?
Well, we've thought of that methodically as the domain of the gods or nature itself.
Since we have that much power, we can destroy nature itself, right?
And to not do that, we have to be safe vessels for that much power, which means that if you have the power of gods, you have to have the love and the wisdom of gods to guide it and to hold it.
And we have developed in our power through technology much, much better than we have developed in our love and wisdom to wield that power well.
And we have wielded our power to just how do we use our power to beat the other guys and then they try to develop their power.
But that process multiplied by exponential tech destroys everything.
And so we are at the brink of a phase shift of either the end of civilization in the not too distant future as we know it, or the emergence into something that is actually worthy of calling civilization, right?
That is actually civil that can be able to hold the power of AI and the Internet of Things and geoengineering and bioengineering and actually not fuck everything up with that much capability.
There's this very deep question and say, as the power is getting stronger, it's also getting more decentralized, right?
So with CRISPR gene drives, you can do the level of bioengineering with a tiny little lab that used to be a whole, you know, the cutting edge of U.S. military, not that many years ago.
And the same with drone weaponry and whatever.
So we have, you know, during the Cold War, we actually this important thing to understand, until World War II, we didn't have the technological power to destroy everything quickly.
As much as we would have wanted to try, we just couldn't.
For the hundreds of thousands of years of human history, the most we could want to destroy would still be not that much relative to the planet.
And then with the bomb that changed, it's like, oh shit, we can actually make this place not habitable for everybody pretty quickly with just some pushes of buttons.
That was the beginning of a whole new world, right?
And how do we deal with having creative power that we can't use or we don't exist?
And so when we created that, the entire world system had to be recreated just to protect us from using the bomb.
The Bretton Woods Convention coming out of World War II was basically a whole new world system where we had to have a united nations because individual national governments clearly didn't prevent World War.
And we had to have a World Bank and we had to have a totally new international monetary policy and all of those kinds of structures emerged then.
And we had to have mutually assured destruction, which emerged a little bit later, to make sure that neither the US or the Soviets would ever use that power, right?
Now, mutually assured destruction was this kind of automated locked on process that if anybody started to fire up there,
Nuke silos at the other one, the other ones would automatically go so you couldn't initiate the war without killing yourself and that's what kept everybody from doing it.
Mutually assured destruction was what saved us.
The system had computer glitches that started to put us into launch sequence many times and we only barely made it in largely by luck.
But that's where we only had two superpowers that had that totally catastrophic capability and those two could fully spy on each other to know if the other one was going to do something.
And you only had one kind of catastrophe weapon, not lots of them, two superpowers, one kind of catastrophe weapon.
And so, mutually assured destruction worked.
And we also war when we start running out of resources and then we're competing for the same resources because everybody's greed wants to get more.
Their own national development interests or their personal development interests expressed as monetary abundance says,
if there's a fixed playing field of stuff, my more has to be your less.
Okay, fuck it, war, right?
So one of the other things that happened was creating this kind of monetary system coming out of World War II where we could just make up shit tons of new money and debt based finance
and be able to create this globalism and just create so much physical abundance of wealth that we didn't have to war, right?
Everybody could be getting richer simultaneously.
That was the idea.
It just happens to be that you're destroying the planet very rapidly doing that by basically taking all of nature and turning it into trash, right?
Which is taking ecosystems that took billions of years to develop and unrenewably destroying them on one side and then turning them into pollution on the other side after a very short period of use.
And you just don't get to keep doing that for very long on a finite planet before you destroy the planet's ability to let you keep doing that.
And also that debt based finance thing starts to catch up with you because in order to pay back the debt, you got to take out more debt.
And, you know, so you get this embedded growth obligation, right?
You have to keep growing exponentially year over year just to break even because you get to keep up with the interest.
So we get to about where we are now and the Bretton Woods world has completely broken down.
Because we can't keep just debt based financing rapid growth to prevent conflict because we already have more of our total GDP going to servicing the debt than is sustainable.
And so we're at the end of the financial systems ability to do that and COVID just made that worse by lowering GDP and increasing debt a lot.
And it was already unsustainable.
We're near the planetary boundaries on like 100 different boundaries.
And so we can't keep doing the turn nature into trash but money briefly on the way to trash process.
And we have dozens of catastrophe weapons now, not just one.
And nukes, there's just not that many places that have uranium and it's very hard to enrich and it's not like small groups can really make nukes.
They're really hard to make.
But that's not true for weaponized drones.
They're really easy to make.
And for a lot of other new types of exponential tech that relatively small forces, not even state actors can make.
Plus there's lots of state actors that have nukes now and chemical weapons and bio weapons and other things like that.
So now you're in a world where you've got not two actors but lots of actors, more than we can even identify.
Ones that we don't even know who can have catastrophe weapons and not one type of catastrophe weapon but lots of them where you don't have clear counters for them.
And you're near the planetary boundaries environmentally and you're at the end of the economic systems capability to keep doing the thing it's done.
That's a transition point.
And I don't remember exactly how we got here but it's important in understanding this to say that the, oh, I was talking about the Apex Predator model.
So that even before we had nukes, an Apex Predator couldn't, doesn't make something like a city, right, which is a completely altered environment.
And we've been doing that for thousands of years.
But, and we've been using that increased power destructively and driving this arms race of increasing destructive capacity.
But at a certain point it became globally catastrophic destruction.
And now it's many, many different methods of globally catastrophic destruction initiatable by many, many actors.
And so this is now where we're like, oh, this is what the power of God's without the love or wisdom to guide it looks like.
And so you could ask this question as exponential tech continues and we get more power that becomes more decentralized.
Oh, yeah, it said all that, say nukes are pretty centralized, but the new tech is decentralized, but catastrophic.
How do we make a civilization that is antifragile with decentralized exponential technology?
Which means if I've got lots of non-state actors that can make catastrophe weapons and I don't even know who they are,
how do we make a world that doesn't break given the way that humans have historically used power?
How do we make a world where anybody can have the power to break everything?
That's an interesting question.
It's a very interesting question.
It doesn't surprise me that we are in a situation where we face challenges when we consider the intro to this discussion,
which was our evolutionary predispositions, our socialized values that we consider to be worth pursuing,
which are essentially repurposed versions of a genetic heritage and all this sort of stuff.
It doesn't surprise me with the most shaky foundation ever,
that when you start to add an awful lot of weight in the form of power, destructive power, technological power,
when you start to add that on top that the system becomes incredibly unstable,
I wonder whether because I consider myself to be a good person, I'm not perfect,
but I don't plan on blowing up the world, right?
I don't want to go out and hurt people, I don't want to go out and kill people.
For me, I think the idealist inside of me relating to self-development thinks,
well, if everybody becomes more self-aware, is able to iterate their introspection
and slowly become better over time, go to bed less stupid than when they woke up,
naturally out of that system, you wouldn't have any of the pathologies emerge,
you wouldn't have any of the challenges emerge because every individual agent within the system
would understand genuinely what is best for them, genuinely how to deploy that
and also would be using any spare capacity that they have to then help others to understand that
and then further progress their movement forward.
Aubrey Marcus on the show said, you do not serve others from your cup,
you serve others from the saucer that overflows around your cup
and what that means is you've got to sort your shit first
and then what you have as a surplus you use to help others sort their shit,
that's how I saw that and I wonder whether that's naivety, ignorance,
probably definitely a lot of ignorance, I've never been exposed to someone
who has been able to wield the sort of power of the people that you mentioned
and also have that mindset.
So probably some ignorance there that I just haven't seen this first hand
and it just sounds like a Hollywood movie to hear that happen, right?
It just sounds totally detached from me.
Yeah, Daniel met a guy but they don't really exist, do they?
You're like, no, these are actual people.
And yeah, I wonder how much of it is...
I wonder how much introspective work, self-development,
working out what do you want to want, what should I want to want,
what is genuinely good for me and then how can I make what is good for me be good for others.
I wonder how much of that can be the answer to some of these challenges that we face
and where the upper bound to what that can achieve is.
The body isn't just 70 or 90 trillion healthy cells all doing their own thing.
That would just be a pile of goo, right?
That would just be bioprotoplasm.
The body is actually a coordination between those.
It involves not just how they function individually in a Petri dish,
but how they relate with each other to be able to make tissues and organs and organ systems
and that whole thing, right?
And so a cell needs to do what it needs to do to be a healthy cell,
but it also needs to communicate with all the ones around it to mediate what the tissue needs to do.
Because it can't just be doing its own thing when the muscle needs to flex.
That particular muscle cell has to be engaged in the process, right?
And let's say that it's being a good healthy cell, but there's a cancer cell nearby.
If some cells don't actually take that cancer cell out, it'll replicate and kill the whole body.
And so there is a need to be a healthy cell.
There's also a need to coordinate with those around you for the things that need to happen.
There's also a need to have an immune function when there are things happening that damage the health of the whole system.
And so if we're talking about how do we want to develop people, we want to develop people in all three of those ways.
They want to have as much capacity to do the things that they should do individually.
They want to have the capacity to synergize, to have synergy with the people that are around them and that they can access.
Now, increasingly access, I guess, with the tools that we have.
The immune function, I can't explain. How does that manifest?
Is that law? Is that just police?
If you see harm happening, do you stop it?
Do you do something to correct the harm and correct the sources of harm? Who does, right?
How does that differ from synergy?
Is it because the actor is malignant as opposed to compliant or cooperative?
Well, they're within a spectrum, right?
It's actually very interesting in terms of cancer, because cancer isn't some external pathogen.
It's a cell that mutated in a way that stops doing synergy with the other cells around it, right?
Because its genetic code is altered where it doesn't actually identify with the rest of the whole in the same way.
So it doesn't want to sacrifice its own maximum consumption of sugar and reproduction rate to synergize with everything.
It's like, fuck it, I'm just going to consume and replicate as fast as I can, which is really good for it for a short while,
but it ends up killing itself and it kills the host, which is what humans are doing with regard to the planet
and also our relationships with each other, where you do that with someone else and it engenders enmity and war back and things like that, right?
There's oxidative stress and free radicals that are making cancer all the time. It's also getting addressed.
So the first stage of dealing with cancer in a healthy body is just not having that much carcinogenesis to begin with, right?
That the body is actually doing a good job of dealing with carcinogenic factors, radicals and oxidants and like that,
so cells aren't turning cancerous that often.
If there's too much carcinogenesis, and this is why we don't want to expose to carcinogenic compounds, right?
If there's too much carcinogenesis, it'll overload the body's ability to deal with cancerous cells and then you'll start to get a proliferation.
So this is the preventative side. How do we have people not become cancer cells in the first place?
How do we not deal with it on the prison or judicial side later, but on the how do we develop humans that are psychologically healthy
and if psychologically healthy also means are part of a whole, so they behave in a way that works well for them and the whole, right?
Then the next step is if a cell starts to get damaged, some oxidative damage happens to it.
The rest of the body tries to heal it first. Can we actually bring antioxidants and correct that process?
If that can't happen, then the body has to kill it.
