Well, good morning, everyone. Welcome to today's Harley Hotchkiss lecture. As you know, the Harley
Hotchkiss Memorial Lecture is organized by the Canadian Center for Behavioral Neuroscience at
the University of Lethbridge since 2013. The series was designed to bring in neuroscientists
from all over the world, southern Alberta, to present their research and need department.
The series honors Harley Hotchkiss, Canadian businessman and philanthropist that supported
scientific research. In the ten years of existence, it has brought in over 100 renowned scientists
to Lethbridge, making possible a most valuable exchange of ideas and information.
Today, we have with us Dr. Michael Levin from the University of Tofts University,
and telling us a little bit about his career and his accomplishments. We have Dr. Arthur Luxac.
Yes, so it is a great pleasure to have Dr. Levin here. He got a Bachelor's Degree in
Computer Science and in Biology, and he got a PhD from Harvard University. Among many, many awards
he received. He's a Distinguished Professor in Biology at Tofts. He's Endowed Chair and he's
Director of Allen Discovery Center in Tofts and Tofts Center for Regenerative and Developmental
Biology. And today, he will talk about how intelligence can emerge from cellular swarms.
And here, I would like to add my personal note that his work really inspired me how I think about
brain, but it is just a collection of smart intelligence and neurons interacting with each
other to create our behavior. And it is not only me. When I spoke with Brian Kolb, what he would do
if he would be just starting his career, he told me about one of the videos of Dr. Levin.
So pay attention because this is really exciting work. Welcome very much and thank you for coming
to join us, Dr. Levin. Thank you so much. Thank you for that kind introduction and thank you
for the opportunity to discuss these ideas with all of you. Afterwards, if anybody is interested
in downloading the primary papers, the datasets, the software, everything is here at this site.
So today, I would like to transmit the following main points. We will first talk about this idea
that intelligence and in particular navigation of arbitrary problem spaces applies well beyond
conventional brain-y animals moving in three-dimensional space. I'm going to stress this
idea that we are all collective intelligences and try to stretch some aspects of neuroscience
beyond neurons. And I think neuroscience has a lot to tell us about things that are not neurons.
To you, for a detailed example of this kind of thinking, I'm going to use morphogenesis
and I'm going to frame it as the behavior of a cellular collective intelligence in anatomical
space. Now, in order to have a collective intelligence, you need something binding the pieces
towards goals in other problem spaces. And that kind of is exactly the same as it is for neurons
in the brain, bioelectricity or electrophysiology is another way of putting it. And I'm going to
talk about how this is what I think is the evolutionary precursor of the central nervous
system and its functions. And I'm going to show you that we now have the tools to read and write
memories into this unconventional collective intelligence. And that gives us applications
and birth defects, regeneration, and cancer. And towards the end, we'll talk about this idea that
there are interesting symmetries across fields, in particular developmental biology and neuroscience,
which mean that tools and concepts can be ported in both directions. And I think that's really
going to enrich both fields. So the talk comes in three main sections. First, we will talk about
some introductions and really some ideas to broaden the usual kind of focus on conventional
animals, conventional brains, and so on. The first thing I would like to us all to remember
is that we all started life as a single cell. So we all start life as a piece of what people
call just physics. I really don't like that term, but a lot of people will look at something like
this and they will say, well, it's a little blob of chemistry and physics. This is an unfertilized
quiescent oocyte. And then there's this amazing process of embryonic development, which results
in one of these complex creatures or even maybe something like this. And all of us take this
journey, all of us go from physics to having a complex metacognitive mind. And it is important
to realize that during this process, there is no magic, kind of a bright red line at which point
you go from from being a physical chemical system to having goals and memories and preferences and
so on. This is something that has to develop slowly and gradually. So I'm interested in continuous
views of this process. And in particular, because if we take both developmental biology,
evolution, and in fact, bioengineering and augmentation and things like that seriously,
we realize that it's really a continuum in many ways that there is no such thing as a standard,
pure cognitive system, such as, for example, a human which people study. And so that means that
we need frameworks for what is now called diverse intelligence. And so I work in this field and
I'm trying to develop a framework that will allow us to recognize, create, and relate to truly
diverse intelligences. And this means not just primates and birds and things like that, and maybe
an octopus or a whale, but also really strange creatures, colonial organisms, swarms, synthetic
organisms that have never existed before, artificial intelligence is both embodied and
software, and maybe even someday exobiological agents. You know, after all, the Earth is an
end of one example of a lineage. Maybe there are very alien kinds of life out there. So what I'm
interested in is a kind of framework that allows us to think about all of these kinds of things
together. And of course, I'm not the first person to try for this. For example, here is
an attempt by Rosenbluth, Wiener, and Bigelow back in the 40s to come up with some general
waypoints along a continuum all the way from passive matter using kind of a cybernetic
kinds of notions all the way up to the kinds of things that humans enjoy. And so our work
in our lab spans from very basic kind of philosophy of mind and things like that,
to conceptual frameworks, to software implementations and bench work to try to test these ideas
and develop applications. And so I really like it when these philosophical ideas actually give us
new ways to move experimental work forward. And I will show you some of those.
So if we think about something I call the axis of persuadability, this is just a kind of continuum
all the way from very simple machines all the way through to human and up. What we find is that
different kinds of systems on this continuum are amenable to different kinds of interactions.
So here, really, it's just rewiring. There's nothing else. You're not going to convince
a reward, a clock or anything like that. Then you have some systems that are kind of cybernetic
sorts of systems where you can reset the set point and you don't really need to know all
the details of how they work. But if you reset the set point, then they will do interesting things.
And then we move up to systems that can learn. So various types of reinforcement strategies,
inference and so on, and eventually very, very complex systems that can be greatly
motivated by very low energy stimuli that encode reasons to do things. And so
there's this whole kind of continuum that is amenable to different tools. So we use different
tools down here than we use down here. And that means that we should really try to get it right.
For any novel system, we should try to figure out where it lands on this continuum. And a lot of
folks have assumptions, sort of philosophical commitments to things like they will look at
some cells and say, there's no way that cells are anywhere over here. Cells have to be simple,
physical, chemical machines and so on. And I really think that that is an empirical question.
In other words, it's not something you can have armchair commitments to. You have to make a hypothesis
as far as the problem space that these operate in and what kind of tools are going to let you have
optimal control. And then you can do experiments and then we can find out. And so there are all
sorts of different techniques for doing that. So given that we arise from a single cell through
this process of complex development, at least some people say, at least we are a true unified
intelligence. We're not really a collective intelligence like ants and beehives and things
like that. Maybe those can be called the collective intelligence, but they're not like us. We're a
true unified intelligence. And I want to stress the fact that this is really not a good way of
thinking about it. For example, Rene Descartes really liked the pineal gland because there was
one of them in the brain and he felt that the unified human experience should have a single,
not a duplicated, but a single point of contact in the brain. But if he had had access to good
microscopy, he would see that there isn't one of anything. This pineal gland, in fact, is made up
of many, many cells. Each one of these cells has all of this stuff inside of it. And so it really
becomes clear that we are all collective intelligences. We are all made of parts. There
is no such thing, to my knowledge, as a kind of indivisible sort of diamond of intelligence. We
all have parts. And this is the sort of thing that we are made of. This is a single cell.
And this happens to be a lacrimaria. It's a free living organism. It has no brain. It has no
nervous system. It handles all of its anatomical, metabolic, physiological, and behavioral needs
at the one cell level. So here it is. And it's a rather amazing little creature.
This is the material that we are made of. We're not made of passive matter. We're made of this
kind of agential material that used to be independent organisms and have all sorts of
competencies and agendas and so on. Now, one interesting that happens is that, for example,
when you train a rat for something like when I press a lever, I get a reward. You might ask,
who is the owner of this amazing associative memory that it formed? I mean, the cells at
the bottom of the feet were the ones that interacted with the lever. The cells in the
gut are the ones that received the sugar reward. Who owns this association between this and this?
And so here you need to start thinking about the whole animal. It's the rat. There is no single
cell that had both experiences. So no individual cell had both experiences in a way that would
allow it to form this association. So now we have to bind these cells in some functional way
so that you can have this emergent creature, this rat, which knows things that none of the
individual components know. And so this is what we want to talk about. We want to talk about that
cognitive glue that enables the subunits to form emergent beings that have memories and preferences
and behavioral repertoires in different problem spaces. I want to talk briefly about a couple
of unusual examples just to warm up because many people spend their lives studying, let's say,
mammalian brains or something like that. And I want to talk about some unusual scenarios that
can help us think in broader directions. So first of all, there's this idea that we have
significant metamorphosis in certain creatures that really helps us to think about how behavior
and bodies come together and how they intersect. So this is a caterpillar. A caterpillar is a soft
bodied kind of creature that requires a very specific kind of controller when there are no hard
elements on which to push. So running a caterpillar type of body is quite a specific task. And so
it has a brain that's well-suited for that process and it eats leaves and it lives in a two-dimensional
world. What it has to turn into is this, a butterfly that's a hard bodied creature, a completely
different controller. It lives in a three-dimensional world, flies around and drinks nectar, doesn't
care anything about leaves. During this process, the brain is mostly taken apart. Many of the cells
are killed. Most of the connections are broken. Really radical reorganization of the brain to
get from here to there. But the amazing thing is that if you test butterflies and moths,
they still have the memories that you trained the original caterpillar on. So this work has
been done and it's reviewed here. They keep the memories and not only does memory persist this
remarkable reorganization of the substrate. You know, when I talk about this to computer science
audiences, this is a huge challenge. We don't have any substrate for computation that could do this.
So not only have the memories persisted, but in an important way they're generalized because when
you've trained the caterpillar to find leaves on a particular, let's say the particular type of disc,
the color disc, when the butterfly goes there, it's not because it remembers the leaves. It
doesn't care about leaves. It doesn't want leaves. What it's generalized is the concept of food.
So both leaves and nectar are now food. So there's this generalization that happens and
all of that happens through a complete reorganization of the brain and the body.
It gets even more impressive in animals like this. These are planaria. These are flatworms that
regenerate every part of their body, including their brain. And so what McConnell discovered in
the 60s, and then we later showed using modern techniques about 10 years ago, is that if you
train them to, for example, to find food on this particular little substrate, this bumpy
substrate, so it's place conditioning, you can remove their heads. The tail end here sits and
does nothing. It has no behavior until the brain is formed. So they form a centralized brain in
their head and everything is reformed. And at that point, you can show that they've retained the
original information. So here you have information presumably encoded somewhere outside of their
brain imprinted onto the new brain as it develops so that it can run behavior. And so all of that
is discussed here. And that actually brings up all kinds of interesting philosophical
questions in the sense that if you chop them into pieces and these pieces keep the original
information, then have you really created multiple individuals which are, in a sense,
identical to the original? This is kind of the old malfunctioning transporter experiment from
Philosophy of Mind 101. And then I want to show you another example of cognitive plasticity this
time in a vertebrate model. So this is a tadpole. So here's the brain, here are the nostrils, the
mouth. And what you'll find is that there are no eyes here. We've prevented the eyes from forming,
but what we've done is put an eye on its tail. And I'll show you in a few minutes how we do that.
So when you put an eye on its tail, it makes one optic nerve. That optic nerve comes out. It in
fact does not go to the brain. It synapses sometimes on the spinal cord here, sometimes it actually
in the gut, sometimes out here somewhere. But in these cases, the amazing thing is that these
animals can see perfectly well. We've created a machine that tests them on visual assays,
so visual learning cues. And it turns out they perform quite well. There is no evolutionary
adaptation needed. So we create these animals. Their sensory motor architecture is completely
novel. So instead of having the eyes here where they belong connected to the brain,
there's this weird patch of tissue on their back that is light sensitive and feeds information
somewhere into the central bus. And then this brain can use that in its behavioral
repertoire. So no problem. So this plasticity and the ability of the body to change both in the
developmental time scale and an evolutionary time scale is something that's really important
we really need to understand. And we think that it is intimately tied to our fundamental
multi-scale competency architecture. This is the idea that our body from the lowest molecular
level up through actually the level of multiple individuals and various swarms, every layer
is competent in its own space. In fact, sometimes it may be in multiple spaces. They all solve
problems. They're not merely structural nested dolls, but actually all of these things solve
interesting problems. And in particular, and we'll get to this towards the end, I really like this
quote from Fabrizio Benedetti who studies the molecular mechanisms of placebo and nocebo effect.
He says, words and drugs have the same mechanism of action. The idea that this multi-scale architecture,
these levels are not independent. They are functionally linked. And so things that happen
at the high cognitive level eventually filter down to the molecular level and vice versa.
There's a constant flow of information up and down. Now, when I say intelligence in various
spaces, what I'm referring to is the idea that we as humans are pretty good, actually not great,
but pretty good at detecting intelligence in medium-sized objects moving at medium speeds
through three-dimensional space. So birds and mammals and things like that. And that's because
most of our sense organs face outwards and we have a very characteristic spatiotemporal scale
on which we are able to perceive intelligent behavior. Now, there are other spaces. There's
the space of gene expression. There are the space of physiological states. There's anatomical morpher
space, which is the space of possible anatomical configurations. And you can think that if we had,
if we had evolved with a sense organ facing inwards, let's say able to test, I don't know,
20 different parameters or a blood chemistry, we would have evolved with a primary intuitive feeling
that we live in a 23-dimensional space that our liver and our kidneys are intelligent agents
navigating that space in a way to solve various problems and so on. But this is very alien thinking
to us because we do not perceive any of these spaces directly. And our various body components,
in fact, solve problems in these various spaces. So for example, it turns out that even molecular
networks, so something as simple as a deterministic gene regulatory network or a chemical pathway,
can have six different kinds of learning, including a sort of Pavlovian conditioning
and so on. So even from the lowest forms of our components of the body, already some of the
components that are tractable to techniques of behavioral science and neuroscience are already
there with us. And in fact, one hypothesis that we've been working on is this idea that
what evolution basically does is pivot some of the same tricks. And there's this fundamental
