trick about navigating various spaces, but it pivots this through different spaces, maybe making
some specializations, but basically all the way from metabolic spaces at the beginning of life,
all the way through to eventually linguistic spaces, and then the need to keep a straight
narrative in a complex linguistic space. And of course, this is the traditional behavior is what
most people in the field study. So what we just talked about is this idea that we really need to
broaden some of our ideas around what implementations might support different kinds of intelligence
and this plasticity that is underlined by the fact that all of the components are actually solving
problems as well. So what I want to do next is talk about this example of a really unconventional
agent. And this is a collective intelligence that lives in morphospace. And just very briefly,
I'll mention evolution, but we could talk for a long time about that. But so this is going to
be our example of how do we use techniques and concepts from both bench techniques and
concepts from neural and behavioral science to understand really a field that is mostly
considered to be quite a different field. Now, Alan Turing, of course, needs no introduction,
but he was very interested in minds broadly conceived. He was interested in intelligence,
in fact, in minds in unconventional substrates and computation, and what is the essential
element of being a mind and being able to solve problems and so on. So he specifically was interested
in problem solving machines and intelligence through reprogrammability. Now, it turns out that
he also wrote this paper, which is really interesting. He wrote a paper on the chemical
basis of morphogenesis, which is a very early mathematical model of the kinds of processes
that might organize a living body from scratch. So this idea of symmetry breaking,
emergence of complexity and regulation of patterns. Now, you might wonder why would somebody who is
interested in computer science and fundamental mathematics be looking at models of diffusion
and things like that. And I think it's because he saw something very profound, which is that there is
a really strong symmetry between these two fields. This idea that the processes by which the body
comes to be are really an important mirror of the processes by which minds come to be. And the idea
understanding intelligence and understanding the scaling of cognition in the universe may be quite
similar to how we understand where bodies actually come from. And I think that's very
profound. Unfortunately, he didn't talk about this directly as far as I know in any of his
writings. He didn't live to really explore it, but I think he was really on to something.
So let's just ask ourselves, where do bodies come from? So this is a cross-section through a human
torso, quite reliable in most births. And you can see this incredible complexity, this order,
everything is in the right place, the right shape and size relative to the right stuff.
And so you might wonder, where is this pattern encoded? Where does this pattern come from? If it's
so reliable, where is it? And of course, we all start life here as a bunch of embryonic
blastomers, and eventually you get this. So where is this pattern? And a lot of people will say, well,
it's in the DNA, right? It's in the human genome, but we can read genomes now. We know what's in the
genome, and what's in the genome is nothing directly related to this. It doesn't specify
anything like this. The genome specifies the micro-level hardware that every cell gets to have,
and so the proteins is what the genome specifies. And so now we need to understand
how this works. And so now we know the genome doesn't directly specify this
anymore than the termite genome specifies directly the shape of the termite mound,
or the spider genome specifies the geometry of the web that it's going to build.
These are all emergent features from the computations, the physiological computations
that that hardware performs. And so now we need to understand, how do these cells know what to make?
How do they know when to stop? And in particular, though, we won't talk about that much in this
talk, but what else can these cells build? How far can you push them? Could you make them build
something completely different? And then Regenerative Medicine asks, what would you have to do to
repair it? In other words, how do you convince cells if something is missing or damaged? How do
you convince cells to go back to the normal pattern? We're very interested in this thing,
which I call the anatomical compiler. And I thought of this when I was thinking about the end game of
our whole field, like what are we going for such that when it's done, we can all go home.
And the idea is that at some point in the future, you'll be able to sit down in front of a computer
system and draw the plant or animal that you want, or the organ or the weird biological robot. It
doesn't matter. You should be able to draw some biological structure. And if we knew what we
were doing, the compiler would convert that anatomical description into a set of stimuli that
would have to be given to cells to cause them to build that particular structure. Now, why do we
need this? Well, first of all, most biomedical problems would go away. So everything related to
birth defects, traumatic injury, cancer, aging, degenerative diseases, all of that would go away
if we had the ability to tell a collection of cells what to build, because then you could build and
rebuild organs and other structures at will. Now, the important thing about this is that
this is not meant to be a 3D printer. The point isn't to micromanage and put cells where you want
them to be. It's really a more of a communications device. It's really a translator between your
anatomical goals and the set points that guide cell behavior. Now, why don't we have this? Why are we
so far away from this? I mean, molecular biology and genetics have been cranking really hard for
decades. Now, why don't we have this? I just want to point out a very simple example. So this is a
baby axolotl. Axolotls have little four legs. At this stage, here's a frog larva. They do not
have legs at this stage. We make something in my lab called a frog-olotl. So this is just a chimera
of an axolotl and a Xenopus embryo. And both of these are sequenced. So you've got the axolotl
genome. You've got the frog genome. Now, I ask a simple question. Are frog-olotls going to have
legs or not? And the fact is, we have no idea. Of course, we can look empirically, but nobody
can make a prediction. There are no models despite the availability of genetic information.
There are no models that will make a prediction on an experiment like that. In fact, the genomic
data can't even be used to guess what the actual shape of the organism is going to be unless you
cheat by comparing that genome to something else that you already know what it is. So here's where
we are today. The field is very good at manipulating cells and molecules so we can get information
like this. We're really quite a long way away from large-scale form and function control.
And I'm going to argue that that is because we are currently where computer science was in the 40s
and 50s. This is what programming looked like in the 40s and 50s. You literally had to interact
with the hardware. You had to physically rewire it. But the reason that nowadays you don't get
out your soldering iron and start rewiring your laptop when you want to go from Microsoft Word
to PowerPoint is because we have figured out that there's a ton of power in high-level interventions
that reprogram and take advantage of certain kind of hardware. And I'm going to argue that biology
is exactly that kind of hardware, which again, for neuroscience, this is not exactly news.
But for molecular and developmental biology, this is a different way of thinking.
And this idea that we've only begun to scratch the surface of what's actually possible.
We have not really understood the amount and the type and the attractability of
information processing and intelligence or problem solving at different levels of biology.
And what do I mean by intelligence? Well, I like William James' definition.
William James said that intelligence is the ability to reach the same goal by different means.
It's a cybernetic definition. It doesn't talk about brains or whether you were
engineered or evolved or anything like that. It talks about the difference between two magnets
trying to get together, which if faced with a barrier will simply stand there pressed up against
the barrier. They're unable to walk around temporarily, get further from their goal in
order to finally reach it. They have no delay gratification ability, very simple system.
Romeo and Juliet, on the other hand, and this is James' example, have all kinds of complex
abilities, including planning and everything else to try to get their goals met. In between,
you have all sorts of things, cells and tissues and self-driving vehicles and animals of different
types. And so this ability to reach the same goal despite novelty, despite novel scenarios and so on
is a kind of measure of this intelligence. And it's important because these competencies,
these capabilities can be taken advantage of in therapeutic contexts if we understood how to deal
with them. So what kind of collective intelligence is due cellular swarms have? I'm going to show
you a few examples. One is that while development is very reliable, so it almost always you start
with a human egg and you end up with a human organism. Actually, it's not hardwired because
what you can do is take early embryos, cut them in half or in fact in many pieces, and you don't
get half bodies, you get perfectly normal monozygotic twins. And so there's this ability to
navigate to the ensemble of gold states corresponding to some kind of a normal human
target morphology from different states. And so of course, I'm collapsing a very complex
entomomorphous space onto just two dimensions to show how they all navigate to that set point,
avoiding various local maxima along the way and so on. That kind of regulative development is not
just for embryogenesis. It also works in some animals, it works during their whole lifespan.
So this is a salamander. So they regenerate their limbs, their eyes, their jaws, their ovaries,
their spinal cords and so on. And what's interesting about this process is that if you cut it anywhere
along, for example, this limb, they grow exactly what's needed, no more, no less, and then they
stop. That's the most amazing thing about regeneration is that it knows when to stop.
When does it stop? Well, it stops when a correct salamander arm has formed. And so this is a kind
of anatomical homeostasis. You can start off at any configuration and it will keep going in the
right way until you get to the right thing. By the way, humans can do this a little bit. This isn't
just for worms and salamanders. Humans regenerate their liver. Even the ancient Greeks knew that.
I don't know how they knew that, but they did. Human children will regenerate their fingertips
up to a certain age and deer regenerate huge amounts of bone, vasculature,
innervation and skin every year. So up to a centimeter and a half of new bone growth per
day when they're growing back their racks. And I don't have time to talk a lot about this, but this
idea that what evolution is working with is a kind of a competent material where cells will
really correct all kinds of defects and so on results in a very interesting intelligence ratchet
because that competency makes it hard for selection to see whether the fitness of the animal
comes from the quality of the genome or from the fact that the actually structural genome wasn't
great, but the competency made up for it. And the more that happens, the more effort from evolution
actually goes into ratcheting the competency mechanisms. It's a very interesting thing.
We can maybe talk about that afterwards. So now that we've seen that
collectives of cells can solve various problems, remember the problem that they solve is how to
walk a particular path through anatomical morphospace that starts out as a single cell,
for example, or a healthy organ, in the case of regeneration, and then is deviated from that to
a different location and then knows how to come back despite various perturbations. And they're
actually remarkable examples of this that I don't have time to go through here, but they're all
discussed in our papers. So now that we see that that ability to navigate morphospace is the thing
we want to explain, now there's an obvious thing we want to look for, which is what is the cognitive
flu? How are the cells all bound together to the same construction project? No individual cell
knows what a finger is or how many fingers you're supposed to have, but the collective clearly does.
And so we need to understand how the individual cells are bound. And so we're going to talk about
bioelectricity. Now, just to remind you of a simple experiment that forces that kind of question is
this. This is something that we discovered a few years ago. So here's a tappel, two normal eyes
at this point, brain nostrils, mouth right here. These tappels have to become frogs. In order to
become frogs, they have to rearrange their face. So everything has to move, the eyes have to move
the jaws, the nostrils, everything has to move around. And it was thought that this is a very
hardwired, meaning low intelligence process, because all tappels look the same, all frogs look the
same. So as long as you somehow encode specific movements, in other words, direction and amount
for each of these organs, you will end up from a normal tappel to a normal frog. So we decided
to test that. And the way you test the competency of these kinds of systems is by perturbative
experiments. You cannot do it just by observation. You cannot do it by only modeling. You have to
perturb them by, as William James said, putting various obstacles in their way and seeing what
they do to respond. And so what we did was we created so-called Picasso tappels. Everything is
in the wrong place. The eyes on the back of the head, the mouth is off to the side. I mean, the
whole thing is scrambled. And what we found out is that these animals actually end up being pretty
normal frogs, because all of these organs do not just go in the same path that they do in
normal animals. They will go in novel, abnormal paths. In fact, sometimes they go too far and
they have to double back until they get to the correct frog face, and then they stop. So what
the genetics actually gives you is an error minimization scheme, a system that can recognize
that it's in the wrong state and take corrective action to get where it needs to go to complete
that journey in morphospace, despite being started in a very abnormal configuration.
And again, this configuration is at the large scale. So it's not that the individual eye cells
are sprinkled throughout the whole head. It's the eye as a whole has to move in the mouth and
everything else. This is truly a collective decision-making problem. But it raises a fundamental
question. How does it know what the correct pattern is? What is the set point? How does it
know what the what the frog face is supposed to look like? And so to try to formalize it a little
bit, you can think of it as, first of all, this is the standard kind of story that you're told in
developmental biology textbooks, which is that there are gene regulatory networks. They make
proteins, they interact with each other in various ways. There is this process of emergence and
it's a very complex process, because lots of actually simple local rules are being carried
out again and again, and outcomes something complex like this. So this is a feed forward,
open loop kind of process. And this certainly does happen. And there are many simple processes
that give rise to complexity. I mean, this is true. But this is only part of the story and
I don't think even the most important part, because what happens here is something very
interesting. If you deviate from this state by injury, mutation, teratogens, many other ways,
what happens is that activity kicks in both at the level of physics and at the level of
genetics that actually tries to reduce the air and get you back where you need to go. So this
is not really an open loop process. This is a process of anatomical homeostasis. And on the
one hand, this is maybe not so surprising. I mean, of course, biologists know all about homeostatic
loops. On the other hand, there's a couple of weird things here. One is that typical homeostatic
loops have a scalar as a set point, a single number. So maybe hunger or level or pH or something
like that. In this case, the set point is basically a complex anatomical structure, not to the individual
cell level or anything like that. But really a fairly complex data structure here. That's first.
And second, certainly in behavioral science, you can talk about at least some kinds of animals
having goals and doing things for reasons. But typically in cell and molecular biology,
we are told to avoid that. You're not supposed to think about systems having any kind of a future
goal, or you know, you're supposed to sort of feed forward from chemistry and see what happens.
So this is kind of a weird way of thinking about it, but it makes a very strong prediction.
The prediction is that as a good homeostatic system, you ought to be able to make changes
by rewriting the set point. In other words, you should be able to find the biophysical mechanism
of the set point. How does the system know what the correct pattern is? You should be able to
decode it. You should be able to rewrite it. And those three things are important in applications,
because currently, the only game in town is down here. If you want to make changes up here, we
are told that, well, you'll somehow have to work out what changes in the lowest level rules are
going to give you system level changes that you want. And this process is fundamentally
irreversible. It's a really terrible inverse problem. There's no real way to reverse it back.
So that limits the applicability of things like CRISPR and genomic editing, because with the exception
of some low-hanging fruit, it's really completely unclear what genes you would edit to make large
scale changes here. So could we actually find the set point? And this is where we've been looking.
Now, in thinking about where to find the set point, we said, well, what's the one example,
the one non-controversial example of a biological system that really encodes goals
and the pursuit of goals? And that, of course, occurs in neuroscience. So we know what the
