hardware is. The hardware are these networks of cells that achieve a certain voltage potential
by means of ions moving through the ion channels. They may or may not communicate that voltage
to their neighbors through these electrical synapse known as gap junctions. And so that's the
hardware. The software here, and that's mediated by this, it can be read out. So this group made
this amazing video of a living zebrafish brain, and you can see all the electrical signaling.
And it's the commitment of a lot of neuroscience that this is really the encoding of the cognitive
content of this individual. So there's this process of neural decoding that if we were to record all
the electrical activity, and if we knew how to decode it, you would be able to read the animal's
memories, preferences, goals, potential behaviors, and so on. That's the process of neural decoding.
This physiology is where we think all of that is sitting. The amazing thing is that actually every
cell in your body does this. So every cell in your body has ion channels. Most cells have gap
junctions to their neighbors. And from the earliest time of development, your tissues are an electrical
network that is processing information. Now, we can then try the same kind of decoding
research program. Could we decode the bioelectrical signals in non-neural tissues
and ask, what are they thinking about? What problems are they solving? And in particular,
and so this is much like here, we're tracking the voltage with a voltage reporter. This is an
early frog embryo. In time lapse, of course, again, reporting the voltage so we can see all the
electrical conversations that these cells are having with each other as they sort out who's
going to be head, tail, and so on. And so there's this basic kind of diagram where
what the bioelectric networks in your nervous system are doing is controlling your muscles to
move your body through three-dimensional space. And this can be decoded and modeled and so on.
And my argument is that this amazing trick is really an elaboration of a much earlier,
evolutionarily, a much earlier system in which all of the cells were running an electrical network
to move the configuration of your body through morpho space. And what evolution has done here
is a couple of things. One is greatly speed optimized the process. So we're talking milliseconds in
neuroscience as opposed to minutes or hours in developmental bioelectricity and it pivoted
space for time, where this is mostly about the control of space. One can argue that nervous
systems are mostly about the control of behavior as a function of time. Okay, so there is this,
and by the way, evolution caught on to this system as early as bacterial biofilms. This is
incredibly ancient and long predates nerves and muscles and things like that. So we then went
on to try to develop some of the first tools, the first molecular tools to read and write
this cognitive information out of non neural cells. Now, no surprise, we took most things from
neuroscience, because as it turns out, the tools cannot tell the difference. We try to maintain
that difference through different different journals and different funding bodies and different
educational materials and courses and departments. But actually, all of the tools, both the bench
tools and the and the concepts poured over very nicely. So it's interesting, some of that distinction
might actually be quite artificial. So we developed some tools to noninvasively read the
bioelectric pattern. We also do a lot of computational modeling to try to understand how
these bioelectric patterns result from the activities of channels and pumps and band
gap junctions and so on. So let me show you a couple of such patterns. This is an early frog embryo
putting its face together. And so you can see again, this is a voltage sensitive fluorescent dye
and time lapse. This is one frame out of that video. It's we call it the electric face. And you
can see here that in that frame, you can already see. So here's the animal's right eye, here's the
mouth, here are the placodes. The major structures of the face are already laid out in this subtle
bio electrical pre pattern before the genes come on to regionalize that face and before the anatomy
actually starts to form. So as it turns out, this is absolutely an essential pattern memory
that is required for forming a normal face. If you just if you move this around, as I'll show you in
a minute, the genes and the anatomy will faithfully follow. So that's it. That's an endogenous pattern
that you might use for monitoring defects. Now, here's a we'll come back to cancer a little bit
at the end. But but but here's a here's a pathological pattern. When you inject a human
oncogene, eventually you'll get a tumor eventually it'll start to metastasize like this. But before
that you can already tell where it's going to be. And in fact, you can tell what where the regions
are that are going to go off of the the plan here and revert back to an amoeba like environment where
they're unplugged electrically from the rest of the network. They're not receiving the signals about
how to build various organs. They're just amoebas, as far as they're concerned, the rest of the body
is external environment. Okay, so these are just some examples. And I show you this, by the way,
because this is the the easiest pattern to decode. We have many other patterns that are actually
quite quite hard. But this is pretty obvious what you're looking at. So in addition to the imaging,
of course, the most important thing is functional, right? So can we manipulate these these bioelectrical
patterns and and show that they're functionally critical for what the morphogenetic collective
does next. And here I have to stress, we do not use any applied fields, there are no magnets,
there are no frequencies, no electromagnetic waves, no electrodes, nothing like that.
We use all the tools of molecular neuroscience and physiology. So we use pharmacology to open
and close channels and gap junctions, we can mutate the channels to change their properties in a
known way, we can use optogenetics and so on. And so the idea is to take any kind of a region
in the in the animal, and use these tools to really just alter the topology and the activity
of the bioelectrical network in a very specific way to try to change its decision making as it
navigates the anatomical morpho space, right? So so so whereas the neural decoding was the part
with the dyes that I just showed you a minute ago, this is equivalent to the the inception of
false memories, for example, and people have done this and mice and so on. So I want to show you
what happens when you actually do this. So the first thing that happens is, remember remember
that that little eye spot that I showed you in the bioelectric phase. Well, you might ask what
happens if you introduce that same kind of spot somewhere else, you take a memory of eye formation
and you falsely reproduce it in other regions of the body that are actually supposed to be
doing something else. Well, if we inject specific ion channels that can induce that that same type
of eye spot that I just showed you a minute ago, in fact, and so you introduce it into cells that
are precursors of things like the gut, those cells will happily build an eye and these eyes can contain
all of the right layers, so lens, optic nerve, retina, all that stuff. So they all have them.
So, so this tells you a couple of different things. First of all, it tells you that the
bioelectric pattern is actually instructive. This is not about messing up the the pattern
and making monsters. This is about making showing that those patterns can cause specific organ level
changes in morphogenesis. So not individual cells, we're not telling just individual cells to
differentiate a different way. We're telling the whole region to make an eye. So this is extremely
modular. We don't have to provide all the information about how to make an eye. We don't
know how to make an eye. This is very high level subroutine call, and this only works with high
level competent systems, because in very simple machines, you have to be in charge of every aspect
of the of the functionality, you have to program every aspect of what it does.
Here we don't need to do that because the system has built in competencies. In fact,
now the interesting thing about these competencies is that when you're analyzing a system, any system,
to make an assessment over what it can do, you're really taking an IQ test yourself,
because it is not obvious. And if you don't prompt it in the right way, you don't know.
So for example, the textbook will tell you that only the anterior norectoderm up here
is competent to make eye. And the reason they say that is because the classic experiments
were done with a master, what they call a master IG in PAC-6. And it's true, if you miss express PAC-6,
only these cells are competent to make eye, but that isn't the actual best master regulator.
And if you do it with a voltage state, in fact, you find out that the competencies much more
than you thought it was. Every cell in the body is able to participate in this, including endoderm.
Endoderm is not supposed to make eyes. So it's important to actually be humble about
when the limitations that we see are really a result of our own lack of knowledge about what
really is a meaningful signal to the surrounding tissues. And the final thing I want to just point
out is that this is a lens sitting in the tail of a tadpole somewhere, an extra lens.
The blue cells are the lineage label of the cells that we actually injected with our channel.
All of this other stuff here was never manipulated by us. Why does it participate? Well, that's
because these cells can do what many collective intelligences do, like ants and termites.
When there's not enough of them to do the job, they recruit their neighbors. So there's literally
a secondary instruction event that's taking place where these cells tell these other cells,
hey, you need to work with us to make this eye. We don't have to program that in both the eye
induction and the scaling to the task. All of that is a native competency of these
collectives if you know how to activate them. And so we can make many things. We can make
ectopic forebrain and ectopic hearts and ectopic odysses and extra legs. So this is actually an
optogenetic frog that has an extra leg growing out of its mouth. We can make fins. That's kind
of weird. Tadpoles aren't supposed to have fins. That's more of a fish thing, but we'll get to that.
So what you can see is that it is possible to rewrite these bioelectric pattern memories
in ways that make the collective navigate to different regions of that anatomical morpheus
space. And we're applying this in our regenerative medicine program. So
frogs normally, unlike salamanders, do not regenerate their limbs. 45 days later, there's
nothing. But we came up with a cocktail that immediately within about 24 to 48 hours triggers
pro-regenerative genes like this MSX1 in this blastema. And by 45 days, they've got toes,
they've got a toenail, and eventually a pretty respectable frog leg that's both touch sensitive
and motile. And the thing about this is that this is not micromanagement. We're not 3D printing
anything. We're not controlling stem cells. We're not interacting with this thing at all.
24 hours of stimulation. And then for a year and a half, this leg will actually grow. And so
it's the decision making of the collective very early on. It's not trying to micromanage it.
And here, of course, I have to do a disclosure because Dave Kaplan and I have a company called
Morphosuticals, Inc., where we're trying to apply the same technology, so a wearable bioreactor,
and then a payload of modulators that convince the cells that they need to rebuild. And we're
now moving into rodents. Okay. The next story I want to tell you has to do with planaria because
I really want to hammer this idea of bioelectrical pattern memories being literal representations
of navigation in this anatomical space. So these planaria have this amazing capacity that you can
cut them into pieces. I think 276 is the record, something like that. And every piece makes a
perfect little worm. So we asked a very specific question. Once you've cut this piece like this,
how does it know how many heads it's supposed to have? And so what we found out is that, in fact,
there's an electrical circuit that sets a voltage gradient in these pieces that determines how many
heads it's supposed to have. And so if you take a normal one-headed worm and you have this body,
this worm has anterior genes in the head, not in the tail, like it should, and it very reliably
makes this one-headed worm. But that's because it has this bioelectrical pre-pattern that says
one head. And so what we were able to do is take an animal, give it a different bioelectrical
pre-pattern. This is kind of a mess. The technology is still being worked out, but you can see here
now it's very clear there's now these two regions. And this animal still has its anterior genes in
the head, not in the tail. But if you cut him, he gives you a two-headed worm. And this is not
Photoshop. This is real. And something important to stress here is that this bioelectrical pattern
is not a map of this two-headed animal. This is a readout of this one-headed animal,
which is anatomically and transcriptionally normal. And it will be that way, will stay normally one
headed until you injure him. So this is a readout of a kind of counterfactual memory. It's what I
will do if I get injured is what does a correct planarian look like, aka the set point of that
anatomical homeostatic cycle. So I promised you at the very beginning that if we are to understand
how these systems solve problems in anatomical space, we have to know how do they remember what
is the correct pattern. And what you're looking at is one simple example of how they encode
gold state information. This is literally a kind of a precursor to, I think, I think this is a
precursor to this amazing ability of human brains to do, well, and other animals to time travel,
to think about things that are not true right now, things that used to be true or that will be
true in the future, things that are not true right now. So that's it. This bioelectrical state
does not describe the anatomy at this moment. It describes a gold state that will be pursued
if the animal is injured. Now, I keep calling it a memory-wide because if you take these
two-headed animals, you can cut them again in plain water. So you cut off the ectopic primary head,
you cut off the secondary head, and with no more perturbation, they will continue to generate
two-headed animals in perpetuity. Now, remember, the genome is normal. There's no genomic change here.
This is a very sort of counterintuitive result because it was thought that if you cut off the
extra head, this genetically normal fragment, well, of course, it's going to regenerate the
normal thing, what the genome says. And so this is why two-headed worms were first seen in 1903.
As far as I know, nobody cut them until we did it in 2008 because it was too obvious what would
happen. I mean, of course, they'll go back to normal. And in fact, that's not what happens.
And so what you see here is that the number of heads is not directly nailed down by the genome.
The genome gives you a machine that, by default, generates a memory of one head,
but you can rewrite it. It's reprogrammable. Without, in fact, editing the genome,
you can physiologically give them a new memory, and they will continue to be two-headed.
It's long-term stable, it's rewritable, and it has conditional recall, which I showed you a minute ago.
And so this is, you can see here this video of these guys hanging around.
So what we are doing now is we are trying to put together different ways of thinking about
systems that have different attractors. So the bioelectrical, the state space of the
bioelectrical circuit that corresponds to one head, no head, two head, and so on.
And lots of thought in connectionist AI and neuroscience about how electrical networks
can store memories of patterns and regenerate those patterns upon damaged or partial inputs.
And there's a lot of work to be done to integrate these, but we think they're both
different views on the same set of processes. Amazingly, it's not just the number of heads,
it's also the shape of the head. So this triangular-shaped planarian can be, by manipulating
these bioelectrical patterns, can be made to make a flathead like a Pifolina or a roundhead like an S
Mediterranean. Again, no genomic change, about 100 to 150 million years evolutionary distance
between this and this. It also changes correctly the shape of their brain and the distribution
of stem cells like these other species. So what they're doing is this same hardware is perfectly
able to visit the attractors in morphospace belonging to these other species. That's normally
where these other species go, but this hardware can go there too, if properly guided in morphospace.
In fact, you can go way beyond things that even look remotely like planaria. And we've seen planaria
make things like this, this spiky form, these kind of cylindrical shapes and this kind of like
combination hybrid shape. And so I think this is what we're looking at here is what Darcy Thompson
in 1917 saw as a latent morphospace around each animal in plant form. And he drew these axes and
it was entirely unclear what these axes were, but I actually think he's representing the internal
encoded map of the collective intelligence of these cells. And then we now have the ability to
actually stretch and deform that internal representation. So what we're trying to do
is basically the same thing that multiscale neuroscience wants to do, which is to go all
the way from the molecular level where different channels and pumps are expressed to the different
bioelectrical, the spatial bioelectrical patterns to the organ level and a whole animal level type
of anatomical order. And ultimately, to algorithmic models that describe this behavior so that we
can actually rationally understand and manipulate what's going on. So a kind of a full stack approach
here. And I'm going to show you one example where we've been able to do that, which is this in the
frog brain. So here's the normal frog brain, forebrain, midbrain, hindbrain. There are a variety
of teratogens, both chemical and genetic, that screw up the brain. And we decided to check whether
we could use a computational approach to try to repair this very complex structure. So we made a
computational model of the bioelectrics around the pre pattern that tells this brain the shape
and the size that it should be, having characterized this pre pattern years before that. And what we
