were able to do is to create a model that in the case of, and I want to show you kind of the most
extreme case. So we've done nicotine and alcohol and different things. But here's the most extreme
case. I think most of you will know the notch gene, which is a very important neurogenesis gene.
And when not just mutated to a dominant active form, what you see is that there is no forebrain.
The midbrain and hindbrain basically are a big bubble. These animals have no behavior,
profoundly disabled. And what we did was we created a computational model of this. And we asked the
model, what channel could we open or close to get back to the correct bioelectrical state?
And so it focused in on this. It's a very interesting channel with some specific properties,
this thing called HCN2. And we found that when we upregulated HCN2, either by injecting RNA and
coding it or with HCN2 openers, you basically get back to a normal brain, anatomically normal in
terms of gene expression, and they get their IQs back. So indistinguishable learning rates from
control animals, all of this while still having that notch mutation. So at least some types of
genetic defects, meaning hardware defects, can be fixed in software. I'm not saying they all will be
like that. There will be many that are not like that. But it really is amazing how much control
you can have at the software level and override what really is a pretty profound hardware defect.
And so what we're doing now is we're trying to create this platform, and you can play with an
early version of it here online, that ultimately is going to have different tissues and organs,
both normal and transformed. And you can go on and say, okay, I have an abnormal bioelectric
pattern in some region, and this thing will computationally model it, and then it will
give you a list of channels and pumps that are expressed in that region, which we know from
scraping transcriptomics profiles. And it will give you targets to try to get the
incorrect pattern into the correct pattern. And of course, then you can pick drugs because
something like 20% of all drugs are ion channel drugs. This is a huge toolkit of potential
electroseuticals, if we understood the modeling. But the idea, again, is not to micromanage the
state of any one cell, the idea is to communicate with the collective and try to get it to
move to different regions of that morphospace and exploit the different competencies that it has
for repair, for scaling of activity, and so on. And so kind of now pulling back, so I'm almost
down here. And so pulling back all the details, by the way, are in these papers. I want to put
forward a view of biomedical interventions as fundamentally in two categories. There are all
the bottom up ones that seek to really interact with the hardware and micromanage the symptoms
and the functionality. And then there are all of this stuff, which is really just beginning to
be exploited. And the idea is that top down, you can actually take advantage of the many
competencies of your material. And so there's something very special here for this because
neuroscience brings something extremely important. It's really a unique field for
all of this. And we've been doing these applications in birth defects and normalizing
cancer and regeneration and so on. Because in neuroscience, it's basically the only field
where you can see how electrophysiology mediates from reasons, so from high level cognitive intent
to molecular causes. And what I mean is just simply that, if I told you that with the power of my
mind alone, I could depolarize 30% of my body cells, you might think that's crazy or you might
think that that's some special mind body medicine kind of thing, maybe some biofeedback or something.
But of course, it's absolutely normal 24 seven event that happens during voluntary movement.
So in the morning, when you make this high level executive decision that you're going to go to work,
that information flow has to trickle down to the opening and closing of ion channels in your
muscle cells to get them to fire so that you can get out of bed and go to work. That incredible
architecture that our bodies have that link all the way from a high level cognition through all
the circuits that you all study and everything else and down into the molecular control of cells
is a unique multi scale understanding that really is still missing in other fields and can really
be imported to great use. So my gut feeling is that all of this means that future medicine in these
areas, there's a regenerative medicine is going to look more like a kind of somatic psychiatry
where you're literally communicating with a collective and manipulating its prior memories,
its measurements, its beliefs about the landscape, the energy landscape that it's in and these different
spaces and so on. And we have a lot to learn from how multi scale neuroscience does this.
So what I've told you today is that intelligence and navigation of problem spaces
is I think a kind of generic concept that's applicable far outside of standard behavioral
science. We're all collective intelligences and that's why I think that neuroscience and the deep
insight and the fact that its tools really can be broadly applicable and its concepts. We use
everything from active inference and perceptual control theory and
by stability and all this kind of stuff is multi scale processing in the retina. All of these things
we use outside of the nervous system to help us achieve better control in regenerative medicine.
And I've talked about the behavior of a collective intelligence of cells in morpho space
as underlying these amazing properties of development of regeneration and so on.
And I really think that this is where the brain learned its amazing tricks.
And so the last thing I just want to show you very briefly is this idea that
there's this really interesting invariance across fields that can enrich both developmental
biology and neuroscience. And for many years I was saying to my students that you can take
almost any neuroscience paper and just do a find replace and every time it says neuron you just say
cell and every time it says millisecond you say minute per hour. And then you've got yourself a
nice potential developmental biology paper full of hypotheses to explore. And so we finally with
two collaborators Thomas O'Brien and Joel Stremel we actually made an AI tool and you can all play
with it here that does this in a very smart way by just by mapping a few terms to each other
and you can take any abstract in a neuroscience paper and see what the corresponding developmental
biology paper looks like. So you can see here this is a this is a beautiful paper by Pinotius and
Miller. And so you go on here and you feed this abstract and what it gives you here is a very
plausible set of claims that is testable in developmental biology. And so we are developing
these kinds of tools to help exploit the invariances between fields to really enrich both sides of
this equation. And the final thing I just want to show you is that I think that because of
this amazing interoperability of life and the fact that cells and tissues are a kind of material
that are happy to work with all sorts of novel configurations and and new materials and so on
all of existing biology everything that Darwin meant when he said endless forms most beautiful
is like this tiny corner of option space and the future meaning the next couple of decades
we're going to be surrounded by all of these things that already exist especially in neuroscience
cyborgs, hybrids, different kinds of chimeras and combinations all kinds of bodies and minds
that we've never seen before that have never been on the tree of life with us. And we are really
going to be looking for insights from diverse intelligence research to expand the way that
neuroscience and behavioral science thinks about agency cognition memory and and how we are going
to ethically relate to these creatures that actually don't look anything like us and you
can't use the familiar kinds of things we use when talking about brain organoids in the dish or
something you know what does the brain look like is it like a human it doesn't need to be like a
human there are going to be all sorts of really wild combinations that we need to think about.
So all of this is discussed in these various in these various papers and I just want to thank the
postdocs and the students that did all the work our many collaborators and and and all of our
technical support again here are three companies that support our work and many many other funders
here and most of all the model systems because the animals do all the heavy lifting. So thank you
so much and I'm happy to discuss.
