As Julian Barber, Tim Kofslawski, and Flavio Markotti pointed out, the observation suggests the solution to one of the greatest mysteries in physics.
How can an arrow of time emerge from laws that do not distinguish one?
In these slides, we will visualize how particles move in Newtonian space relative to a Janus point.
Here is an example of a three particle or three body system. This system has been subjected to certain constraints, such as zero angular momentum and zero total energy.
This is a generic solution, and any system subject to these constraints will have similar results.
This specific solution shows three particles of equal mass, where other solutions would be slightly different since the masses are not the same.
On the left, we can see the trajectories of a blue, red, and green particle as they move away from the Janus point and interact with each other gravitationally.
On the right, we see the same system, but moving in the opposite direction out of the Janus point.
You will see that in both cases, two of the particles appear to conjoin and move together. We call this a Kepler pair.
The third particle, or any particle not in a pair, we call a singleton.
The Kepler pair and the singleton particle are shooting off in opposite directions as to balance the center of mass and maintain angular momentum at zero.
Notice how in different directions out of the Janus point, we see different pairs, even in the same system.
Out of one, we see the red and the green particle in a Kepler pair, and out of the other, we see a red and a blue.
Here is a zoomed in section of the same animation, so you can better see how the particles in Kepler pairs interact.
Notice how these particles come close together, quickly loop around each other, and then move away, mimicking Keplerian orbits.
Here is the original system, except we've combined both trajectories out of the Janus point onto the same plot.
To clarify, this is what the Roman god would see if they stood at the Janus point, two universes, not the same, but very similar, and with the same particles expanding out to infinity.
Now I have some more graphs to show you.
On the left is the dilatational momentum, or an increase of how the system dilates, or the measure of how the system dilates.
This is simply the rate of change of the ICM, since it is a measure of the change of the moment of inertia of the center of mass.
On the right is a graph of the complexity, or the clumping of the system.
It oscillates as the Kepler pairs get closer together, and further apart.
Now, we will look at four other instances that have been subjected to shape constraints.
Unlike our original three-body system, these particles do not have the same mass, and therefore behave very differently than what we saw last.
Despite this, we can still observe similarities.
In these three systems, we see Kepler pairs and singletons forming, although they are not very uniform or clean since the masses are not the same.
On the top left, we see a rare system where no Kepler pairs form, and rather the three particles split off as three individual singletons in opposite directions as to maintain angular momentum at zero.
Here, we will look at a five-body system with randomly generated initial conditions.
It may be difficult to see through this zoom recording, but we can see the beginnings of Kepler pairs forming between the red and the purple particles, as well as the yellow and the blue.
Additionally, these two pairs seem to expand together in what we call a cluster.
The green particle shoots off quickly from the rest of the group as a singleton.
Here is a system of 15 particles.
Notice how we have some singletons, a few difficult to see Kepler pairs, and a cluster of pairs forming right here at the top.
This variance is common to see in higher-body systems with random conditions.
To illustrate that variance, here is the graph of the complexity of the 15-particle system.
We can still observe oscillatory motion as before, but it is not as consistent.
We also begin to see somewhat of a trend in the graph that resembles a parabola.
Here, we can see that idea cemented as we observe the complexity of a thousand-particle system.
The effects of the oscillatory motion have been mostly negated by the general trend of complexity upward in both directions out of the Janus point.
End-body problems are not a foreign or a new concept.
For over 300 years, physicists and mathematicians have been using Isaac Newton's equations to try and understand our universe.
Now, the end-body problem can be used to display the universe in a new way, one that will help pave the way for the next part of this theory, where we will find a new way to look at space.
Hello, my name is Margot Chestnut, and I'm a fourth-year physics student at Cal Poly.
In my presentation today, I'll be talking a little bit about the three-body system and introducing the shape sphere, as well as talking about interesting and relevant features of the shape sphere.
Then, towards the end, I'll also introduce the four-body system.
Let's now take a closer look at the standard three-body system of three particles of equal mass.
These three crosshairs are the three particles, and this point in the middle is the center of mass.
This system always forms a triangle, and its shape can be described by two angles.
For this, we can generate a sphere of all possible configurations of the shape of the system, called the shape sphere.
This is a representation of the shape sphere.
The colors on the sphere indicate the complexity of that particular configuration.
For example, the shape of the system right now is an equilateral triangle, and is at the point of lowest complexity.
Even with equal masses, the point of lowest complexity, called the alpha point, is on the poles of the sphere.
The alpha point is the most special, most uniform shape.
I can change the shape of the system, and the corresponding position on the shape sphere will also change.
Changing the size of the configuration won't change where it lies on the shape sphere, because its shape stays constant.
The equator of the shape sphere represents the collinear configurations, of which there are the Euler configurations, like this one, and binary collisions, like this one.
The Euler point is a saddle point on the shape sphere. These collinear configurations are called central configurations, because if no other force acts upon them, the system will not change its shape.
This animation shows how the triangle of the system changes as the point on the shape sphere moves.
In this graphic, we've also added these contour lines, showing the value of where the shape potential is constant along each contour.
The shape potential is just negative the complexity.
We also have added gradient field lines corresponding to the shape force, which is the gradient of the shape potential.
The gradient field lines flow out of the alpha point, and converge at the binary collisions.
Saddle points exist on the equator at the Euler configurations.
We've been exploring the three-body system so far, but what about the four-body system?
The four-body system needs more than two coordinates to define the system, so its configuration space is five-dimensional.
However, by holding three of the four-point particles constant and having the fourth particle move around the system, we can generate a complexity density plot.
This is an example of a complexity density plot of the four-particle system.
In this case, the three particles are arranged as an equilateral triangle, and the fourth particle is free to move about.
The color and opacity of the plot directly corresponds to the value of the complexity when the fourth particle is directly at that point.
So when the fourth particle is near one of the points that make up the triangle, the clumping is greater so the complexity increases, which you can see by these orange spots right here corresponding to a greater value of complexity.
The point of least complexity for this system is when the fourth particle creates a tetrahedron with the other three particles, which you can see by the areas of least density at the points where tetrahedron would be formed.
One of these density clouds sits on top of every configuration of the three-particle system, so when the three-particle system is in the Euler configuration like this one,
you can see that a complexity density plot for this system looks like this, where there's a ring of lowest complexity that forms around the collinear configuration.
You can see the three particles are aligned collinearly like this.
Now, more investigation of the four-body system is needed to fully understand and describe the configuration space for the four-particle system. Thank you.
My name is Trace Tainwan. I'm a fourth year physics and aerospace engineering student, and I'm going to be discussing how we can apply trajectories to the shape sphere.
Earlier, how a single configuration of three particles may represent on the shape sphere is a point, so it follows that we can represent the progression of triangles, as you see here on the left, as a curve in shape space by comparing triangles as they change over time.
Now, before I go into that further, I need to introduce a concept called best matching.
Best matching is how we can find the distance between configurations within shape space, so in order to do this, we need to be able to define how different two shapes are.
And remember here, we're only discussing the shapes and not their sizes.
We'll consider these two shapes here. They're only slightly different to make the point.
First, you need to find the center of mass of each shape.
Note here as well that if we had a system of non-equal masses, the center of mass would adjust accordingly.
So once we have this point, we superimpose the two shapes, lining up the centers of mass, and then we'll rotate them to try and line them up in a way that minimizes the differences between them.
The details are better visible on these different triangles here.
To find the best matched positions, you want to minimize the mass weighted square of the distances highlighted with red dashes here.
Now that's just the same as how you could find the minimum of a function and the x value at that minimum.
But in our case, we'd be changing the angle of rotation in order to minimize that ds sub sbm value.
You can see here as well how we would find that minimum.
And once we have the triangles best matched, we can determine the path taken between them in shape space while disregarding anything that's background dependent like rotation or scale.
Now that we've established how the trajectories make it onto the shape sphere, we can look into it more conceptually.
So here you can see a three-body system evolving through time in both directions.
As was emphasized earlier, three-body systems have a tendency to form into an orbiting pair and a singleton, which you can see happen here.
This tendency is also observable on the shape sphere as the trajectory approaches the well of a binary collision.
Note that the trajectory is spiraling inward because the pair is getting further and further away from the singleton.
The triangle is becoming more stretched out.
This is again represented here with the system evolving through time where the shape trajectory spirals in towards the potential well and the Kepler pair orbits away from the singleton.
On the other end of time, a different pair forms, so the trajectory on the shape sphere approaches a different potential well.
It will be more clear here that while the particles are near each other, we observe a triangle of larger area and we see the point on the shape sphere in an area of lower complexity, not near the equator, so to speak.
And then again on the bottom row, we see that shard-like behavior as time goes on and the shape trajectory is near that well.
I also want to point out here the Janus point, which is in blue.
As a reminder, that's the point of zero dilatational momentum, and that's a great example of the Janus point not being at the point of lowest complexity, which would be up here for this trajectory.
I'm Grant Gilbert, and I'm a physics student here at Cal Poly, and I will be talking about the structure of shape space.
I'll tell you right away that the structure of shape space, which again defines all possible shapes a collection of gravitating masses can make, is determined solely by the masses and the interparticle distances.
In this talk, I will be focusing on the special three-body case because it is easier to visualize, but keep in mind that these ideas can be generalized to higher dimensions.
We make sense of the structure of shape space by use of a unitless quantity called complexity.
Let your attention to the equation here that describes complexity as a ratio of the root mean squared length and the mean harmonic length, two interparticle distances with units of length that are divided out to produce a unitless result.
This complexity is a pure number that is determined solely by the mass ratios of the particles and the distances between them.
It is useful to quantify any given shape of n particles, essentially acting as a measure of shape.
The systems of similar mass ratios and shape have the same complexity, and generally the more clustered a system is, the more complex it is, which means as a system evolves, it tends to become more complex.
Intuitively, as matches what we see in our own universe, where rich structures such as galaxies and solar systems are born out of the gravitational clustering of the early universe.
The pictures on the left show how rotating or dilating a shape does not change its complexity.
This makes sense because it is impossible for an observer inside the universe to sense any rotation dilation or translation of the entire universe, and thus these transformations should not factor into the measure of its shape.
However, as is the case for the image on the right, changing the position of just one particle in the system changes its complexity.
The particle that is moved here is highlighted in blue, which is a little difficult to see its movement, but if you look closely you will notice it.
This is meant to show that any subtle change of the shape will result in a change of complexity.
Also worth noting is that the shape of the smallest complexity, the one given a value of zero above the minimum here, appears to be the most uniform.
This is not a coincidence, and this is actually true for all shapes of minimum complexity, which may give us insight towards the uniformity of the early universe.
Now here are two representations of shapespace for the three body systems.
On the left is the shapesphere, and on the right is the shapesphere but with its complexity extruded outwards.
You can think of each point on the shapesphere being given an additional height based on the color or complexity of that point.
You can notice the similarities between the contours, color gradients, and trajectories.
The three peaks are the collisions of each particle pair, cut off at a certain point because the complexity goes to infinity, as the collision is never actually reached.
The contours represent points of equal complexity, which also stop appearing at a certain point, but that is merely visual.
The contours begin as a unified near the helpful point, but soon become disjoint and see three separate equal value contours climbing the lengths of the peaks.
The blue line is a shape trajectory of a three body system, exactly like the green line on the shapesphere itself. These are actually the same trajectories.
You can see the spiraling occurs around one of the peaks as two of the particles join in a Kepler pair.
The third particle shoots off in the opposite direction, causing the complexity to increase infinitely, thus cutting off the trajectory.
A good question to ask here is that as said earlier, complexity is a measure of clustering.
So why is the complexity increasing infinitely as the single particle and the pair grow further apart?
The answer is simple. All it takes from you is to think relationally.
From the perspective of the single particle, the two particles representing that pair would appear to approach coincidence as its distance from the pair approaches infinity.
You can imagine an isosceles triangle and you can imagine the two ends of the isosceles triangle being the particle pair and the one at the other end being the single particle.
You can imagine that as one zooms out of that isosceles triangle, you would see only two points because one of the ends would become one point as you zoom out into infinity.
This is exactly what's happening in this trajectory.
The trajectory will continue to climb higher and higher along this collision peak, but just as it will never reach the point of collision, it will never reach the top of the peak.
Of course, we're using shape dynamics to understand the universe. We must consider cases in which the interacting particles do not share the same mass.
Here is an animation of the extruded shape sphere. In this animation, two masses are kept at a value of one while the third mass is moved to five.
Two peaks seem to almost pinch off the third as it becomes smaller and smaller, which can be understood as the probability of both of the less massive particles colliding.
As the mass of one particle becomes larger and larger, it becomes increasingly likely for a Kepler pair to form with the massive particle and one of the less massive ones, which is evident by the two peaks joined together, representing both less massive particles pairing with the massive one.
Finally, note the shifting contours and alpha point, the blue point of minimum complexity, and how they are changing based on the changing mass.
This is another animation, but this time we are changing the two masses at the same time from a value of one to a value of five while leaving the third at one.
Also note that we don't care about the units of these masses because we're working relationally in the form of unitless values and ratios.
The three peaks here can be understood as both cases in which the less massive particles are colliding with one of the massive ones, and actually they're not colliding per se, but they're pairing and at infinity they would be colliding.
And the one large peak is that of the two massive particles pairing.
Note the shifting contours and the alpha point. The very structure of shapespace itself, its contours of equal complexity and alpha point are changing as we change the mass ratios.
In a relational universe, it is only the mass, it is only the ratios between the masses and the separation distances that matter.
We hope you liked the video. If you're interested in looking for more, check out Dr. Barber's website at www.plotonia.com, as well as check out Dr. Barber's latest book, The Janus Point, which details all of what we talked about in this video and more.
