I was working with a lot of coffee grinders and I was just kind of like... Look at self-control.
This coffee is you. No, um, yeah, no, I probably have more self-control than I should because I
should have actually like talked back to her, but instead I just quietly fumed and then just quit
for no reason. Better than what I could have done. Yeah, there's there's a line, I guess, the
you know, Aristotelian golden mean between like, you know, savagely murdering them on the spot
and not doing anything. We're just calling them out. Yeah, you could just say,
fuck you. I could have been like, yeah, fuck you. I'm quitting because you're jerk. But that level
of confidence is hard to get to. And you know, it's the kind of thing you think of to say later,
right? So there's been a number of times I regretted not saying something in my life. Oh, that's,
I think, like super typical, right? I think there's even a word for it. There's word for
everything in German, but like staircase wit is what they call it. It's the whatever the translation
is, where it's like when you're leaving the room later, you're like, fuck, I should have said that.
Yeah, I think but that's like different from regretting not having stood up for someone.
Oh, sure. Sure. Yeah, that's more important. Yeah. And more serious.
I think I'm always worried about saying the wrong thing in the moment. I like specifically
thinking of this one time I was in Starbucks, and this guy was just being a huge jerk to the
barista for no reason. And I was right behind him. And I was like, I need to say something.
But I can't really think of the right thing to say. And then he'll just be mean to me. So I'll
just like ignore it. And then later, I was like kicking myself. It's like, I should have said
something as opposed to just standing there and like, being wide eyed.
I've done that. And then what I've done usually, I don't usually, I don't think I've ever
confronted somebody being an asshole, like to somebody else in public like that. But I'll,
if I'm like next in line, I'd be like, man, that guy sucks. Sorry, he's a fucking prick.
You know, here's an extra couple bucks or something if I can.
I would have said that but the first actually like ran away crying and then somebody else came
and I was just like, well, that sucks. I was actually also kind of concerned that this guy
was going to get violent. He was just being very wild and crazy in public.
So that's always something that you're kind of like, should I speak up?
Is this going to like become an altercation?
That's unsettling.
I was really impressed with Drake. A few months ago, we were in a Chipotle and some guy pulled
into the handicap spot and ran into the store. And you know, he'd ran in behind us and Drake was
like, Oh, you got your temporary tags. It's like, what? You temporary handicap tags. They're not
hanging on there. You probably should put them up. It's like, no, man, I'm not handicapped.
And, and Drake was like, then why are you parking in the handicap spot? It's like,
look, I'm just running in for a burrito. You jerk. And Drake's like, I'm the jerk.
Yeah, handicap spot, not a temporary parking spot.
You prevented somebody who is handicapped from being able to access the burrito place as well
now. Come on. And I mean, no one who was handicapped came in in that time, but that's not, you know,
that's not the point. Exactly. Yeah. And I was just like, I probably would have said nothing.
So the fact that he was there just willing to be like calling the dude, I was like,
that's awesome, man. And then, you know, if you could rally behind him,
because there's already that focal point or somebody doing something. Yeah, that's nice.
There needs to be more critical mass of people like that to catalyze those things.
Yeah, I admire that kind of personality type. Alrighty. Shall we get into the episode or do
we want to talk more about Jess? Let's talk about anything else.
Well, there was a segue. I'm not that interesting.
No, you're good. There was there was a segue from traffic to something
we got a question a while ago and I maybe there's a way to do a whole episode on it that wouldn't
be just super mandatory. But what I've been trying to do is just plug it every time I can make a
something, which is like, how do you do rationality in your day to day life? And one of them is the
that I just kind of thought of when we were talking about traffic is like, I don't text and
drive anymore. And I only for a while would like, you know, do it while actually moving, but you
know, I do it at stop lights or at stop signs and then the light turns and then yeah, doing it for
the first exactly for the first few seconds. Those are kind of critical. So it's just one of
those things like, I feel perfectly safe, I feel like I'm in charge and that I'm I'm cognizant
of everything, but everybody feels that wall on the zooming. Most people feel that way behind
the wheel, right? No one's like, I have no idea what I'm doing, but I'm snap,
self reports as being a good driver. Right. But obviously, there's like a scale of drivers.
I don't. I've been told by enough people that I drive like an asshole that I fully admit that
I'm probably a bad driver and I drive like an asshole. I think bad driver and asshole driver,
like how many accidents have you been in slash caused caused? I think I rear ended a person one
time and even driving for like 20 years. Yeah. I think that's that's a fair record. But I mean,
like I drove into a tree once and no, I rear ended two people. One time, though, it was just like
on massive ice and oh, that's nobody's fault. I suppose I could have driven more carefully,
right? But man, I just started. I hit, you know, pushed my brakes and my car just
didn't stop. And I was like, well, I guess I'm going in that guy's bumper. Yeah,
no, it happens. That's how my last car got totaled was the guy hit me as a perfect gentleman
about it, though. And his car was fine. He drove a, I think it was a 2015 Forester and
like it might have cracked his license plate cover. So now that's what Rachel drives. I'm super
happy that she's all that she's safe in there. So but the reason I brought up cars was that
I trust the fact I trust the numbers that people aren't safe when texting and driving.
And so I don't I will occasionally do it at stop lights. But if the light turns green,
I set it down where I can't see it before I like hit the gas. So I don't finish. I don't do whatever.
But it's just the one I'm trying to say I'm accepting the numbers over my own my own judgment
because I'm a judgment there is flawed. So just the capacity to do that is kind of an example.
This is, you know, we're just talking methods of rationality to sort of that.
What is the methods of rationality or, you know, all the little things that Harry's
constantly monologuing about in the story are largely things people can do in their day to
day lives. You know, not privileging hypothesis, you know, actually stopping and analyzing the
problem for five minutes before trying to solve it. Yeah, I've taken a lot of that to heart.
Yeah, the rationality differently made like a pretty big impact on my life where actually
going to my Philadelphia less wrong meetup I was talking about like we did a bunch of calibration
meetups, especially on New Year's we would do like the whole let's make predictions on various
like political and like world news things and then we'll like calibrate them next year. And I
was told by like my group leader, I don't know, we don't have titles, but the guy who organizes
the meetups was like, oh, you're you actually seem like you're like kind of pathologically
underconfident. And I was like, no, I'm not. And then like I like thought about it. I did a bunch
of decision advisory stuff. I'm going to plug decision advisory again. I love them. I was like,
oh, yeah, I'm super underconfident and like everything in my life actually. And this is
actually a cognitive bias. I always thought of it as being like a rational underconfidence
because I was like everybody else in the world super overconfident, but I'll be more successful
than everybody if I'm underconfident about everything. Turns out that there's like a happy
medium. So I've been trying to take more risks lately. I've actually been making monetary bets
with people about things to try to calibrate better. And it's actually made like a pretty big
difference in a lot of regions of my life. Five bucks say your prediction estimates don't go up in
the next year. That's really cool. All right, now you get to plug one in, Yash. What do you do
rationally that makes you better than not better than superior?
How are you better than the muggles? That's what I was going to jokingly say. And then I was jokingly
running with synonyms to better. But what do you try to do to try to better your own cognition
and decision making? Or what? Why do you care about rationality? Why are we? Why do you read
the stuff? Why are you? You should come back to me. All right. If you want. And say one thing that
I've observed is that you, well, I don't know if that's, yeah, maybe. Like the other thing that
I kind of got was it's one of the jokier posts, but I think the message is one of the most
like succinct in all the sequences. I think it was the use the try harder Luke. Yeah, which is
where it's like a joking version of the script where Yoda is trying to instruct Luke to raise the
X-wing out of the swamp. And Luke is like, I can't do it. And stomps off in the movies. But in this
little script, he's like, okay, well, this senior of 900 years just told me I should be able to do it.
I'll actually try. And he was like, no, don't try. Just do it. And that that mentality of like,
I don't know, shut up and actually try. Yeah, there's there's another post shut up and do the
impossible, which is awesome and inspiring. But I think the easier version of that and much more
attainable to the average person is just shut up and try. Like whatever the thing is, I mean,
that was the main thing for me when I started doing software stuff was, I just assumed it was
too hard. And I was like, well, I never actually looked into it. And friends sent me a Python
tutorial. And it's like, Oh, this is like written in English. I thought it was like all ones and
zeros and like, you know, special characters and stuff. Oh, like in the movies, literally everything
I knew about programming. Okay. So, so how do you hack into the mainframe? Yeah, exactly. You always
have to be like, I'm in. Yeah. And you've got it. You fingers got to be going really fast. Yeah.
You don't just call them and like ask, you know, or you don't like Facebook stock and
find out the name of their pet or something. It's kind of a mini game where you have to type
faster than the security guy on the other side. Yeah, that's the other thing too that I always
liked. You know, but like if you have your own private server for whatever reason, and you notice
like, you know, some sort of DDoS or some sort of traffic influx that's weird, the best security
is you can just run over and unplug it. Yeah, like you don't sit there and like, Oh my god,
what's happening? You're like, Oh, fuck this and turn the power off. And you know, you don't lose
anything. So that's, I think how a real hacker would win 10 times out of 10. Anyway, yeah, so
the just try and do stuff. And so that's a really good one. It is. And I mean, some things are
prohibitively expensive, you know, but not, I don't know of anything that's too hard to like
sample. That's super cheap, right? Like, you know, even like a home, you know, home improvement
or something, it's like, well, try and restore a coffee table before you redo your floors, right?
And a coffee table, whatever, you're out 40 bucks if it's if you ruin it or something, right? So
turns out redoing floors is actually surprisingly easy. Well, see, I wouldn't have known I would
assume it's super hard. Now that I know that that's actually really reassuring because we're
definitely going to have to redo ours before we move out. So yeah, they make these nice laminates
now that you can just snap together like a puzzle. Yeah, that's literally what this is. That's what
I put in my first house. And then like, there's like a little soft padding that you can put on
the floor first. So it makes it really smooth. I heard a guy, an installer talking at the Home
Depot while I was shopping for them to another guy, where he was like, Yeah, one of my clients
saw me putting this in and used to be, you know, you had to do glue and gun staples and all this
other stuff. And they saw me putting this stuff in and they're like, I could just do that myself.
I hate this shit makes me look useless. And then the installer was like, ha, ha,
you're paying me to do Legos. It's very like, yeah, that's kind of similar to Legos. It was
so satisfying putting that flooring and it like actually has a little groove on the side and
they just snap together next to each other. And you can just do it and like, I did like one room
and under an hour, we were just like snapping them together. The challenging parts was like
where the fireplace is because that's at an angle and cut things. That rock goes all the
way to the floor. Yeah. Or is there a baseboard? Well, I mean, there's there's like a little
quarter round. But yeah, thank you over there. All the all the doors are pain in the butt like
the door between the kitchen and the bathroom. I was that was difficult. But yeah, aside from
a few areas where you get this challenge points in, it's just snap, snap and go. Nice. Anyway,
little things like that. Yeah, a lot of underconfidence kind of relates to that too, where
I had this fear of failure and this fear of disappointing people around me for so long. And
it was just like, what's the actual consequences if you try this thing and fail? Oh, I know that
one. Yeah, it's usually never that you're going to die. It's usually or like be maimed or like
outcast from society. It's like people might be disappointed in you. And that is actually pretty
like upsetting, especially if it's like your family or whatever. But like,
the worst part is when no one's even disappointed because they don't know. Is that
bad? Or if they don't know? What was I going to say? I guess it depends on the the scale of
what it is you're trying to do. You know, if you're trying to, I don't know, whatever,
learn how to think of something like fix your car. Like who's going to be disappointed in you
other than yourself? It's like, I thought I could do this and I couldn't. So yeah. And then what do
you do? You like take it to the shop afterwards. And then they're like, Oh, no, this is how you
do it. And you're like, Oh, which is what you're going to do anyway, but you tried to do it yourself
first. You know, I guess what I'm getting at is like so few things have like a, well, not so
few, but most things that I think certainly I was nervous about these five years ago more,
but not nearly scary at all. They're just they're a thing. Sorry. I'm going to skip this one because
that noise was I'm doing a, I've got a twin brother. We've been doing longitudinal twin studies
since we were like really small. They sent us each phone and it beeps us three times a day.
And it's basically this one's studying like, all right, how stressed were you since the last
survey two hours ago? What have you been up to? And all right, now do these quick cognitive
assessments. And it's kind of fun. I like doing these things because I always love seeing the
like, Oh, this such and such is, you know, X percent inheritable. Well, this is the kind of
way that they find that out is by testing identical twins and seeing how they compare to each other.
So is this the three times a day thing? It's not like permanent, right? There's spurts of it.
No, this for the started on Monday, it's going to go through week from next or whatever, two weeks.
Okay. Yeah. Oh, if it was all the time, I would make them just give me an app on my phone.
This thing is way too cumbersome for me to be carrying around. It's sucking up valuable
pocket real estate. If it wasn't winter, I'd be the complete loss. If I didn't have coatpockets
to offload into. I didn't know you were in a study. How did you enroll? Did you seek the study
out or did someone approach you? They must have contacted my parents. I mean, we've been doing
it since before I remember, you know, so we've been three or four or five. Interesting. I think
we're the earliest ones. So it's in CU Boulder. Yeah, I wonder about people who have identical
twins if like researchers just kind of wait outside their house with clipboards because like,
would you like to take a survey? Twin studies are so important. They are. I don't know how
my parents got into it because they must have gotten some flyer. Probably from the hospital,
actually. Maybe. Yeah. And maybe they got some, you know, couple hundred bucks. I don't know.
Like, I think that's the most I've ever been paid was $200. Maybe they got those in early little
because I don't know what would have motivated them to spend a whole day driving down to Boulder
and spend their days sitting around doing nothing. They usually compensate you.
Yeah, but not, I mean, I don't know. Or like pay for your travel. Yeah, last summer,
my brother and I got MRIs, FMRIs, while we did some super boring tests. But I was excited about
that because I tried to get an FMRI when I was at CSU because I was pretty sure I had brain
damage from all the times I've been hitting the head. And I'm bad at like faces. I can't
understand words in music. Like, there's a lot of things like other people can do this.
Words in music are hard to understand. Well, that's why they used to have liner notes.
Fair enough. Now they have the Google. Well, so it's not just me.
No, it's everyone. Although it is me more than it's other people. Like,
I can listen to popular stuff and I can ask Rachel and she'd be like, that's what they said. And I'm
like, oh, okay. Has Rachel heard it like 200 times, though? Because after a while, we start to.
Maybe. There's definitely different competencies in being able to pick out lyrics in music or
