Yeah, I'm ready. Okay. We're probably gonna do that too. Yes. I thought that was like the thing that is the thing
but I want to start with that with something else. Yes, totally. Okay. Welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy. I'm
Yash Brotsky. I'm Stephen Zubri. I'm Jessica Dickey. And we're going to start out with a question that is very pertinent to us today.
Someone emailed us. I forget who and I don't have the email up right now. Crystal.
Was it Crystal? Do you know what email I'm about to quote? I assume so. Okay. The email said,
who is Jess? That's the one. Okay. Yeah. We're going to start out with this. Okay. We're going to start
with saying, Jess, we are, we finally made it official. You are actual third co-host now for good.
Like no longer just this guest spot bullshit. You know, show up if you want to. Now you're stuck
with us. But welcome to the show. No, this is fun. Thank you. Yeah, I'm really happy about this.
Yeah. And so who are you? My background. I'm from New Jersey and I used to attend the
Philadelphia Lesserong Meetups now that I'm in Denver. I'm attending these Denver ones.
My work background is really varied. I just have lots of interests. So I have a Bachelor of Arts.
I used to make soap. Like if you know the company Lush, I did like something similar with handmade
soap, lotions, bath salts. Oh, I think that's Fight Club. It was, yeah, no, it was, I actually
quit because the manager and the director of the place were really scary. I loved making the products
and maybe. I also worked for a restaurant as a sous chef for a bit. And then I spent six years in
game design. I was working on mobile and web games for Microsoft, Disney, and then I was in a startup.
And most recently, I was a librarian and now I just graduated from a clinical research school
and I'm interning at a clinical research facility here in Denver and I'm hoping to get hired soon
as a clinical research coordinator. That is a lot. I'm not sure exactly where to start. Let's
start with how did you hear about getting to this whole rationality thing? Well, like a lot of people,
I found out about it from Methods of Rationality. Shout out. So how'd you, okay, for starters, how
did you find about Methods of Rationality? Actually, I was a really big fan of the Skeptics Guide to
the Universe podcast and one of the co-hosts mentioned it in the notes at one point. They were
like, used to have like little recommendations of things to read. They're like, oh, and then there's
this weird, like rationalist Harry Potter fanfic that is really cool. I started reading it and I
just, it was on fanfic.net and I just assumed it was some like smart ass college kid writing it.
And eventually, like I looked it up and there's a Wikipedia and it said it was Eleazar Yukowski
who I'd heard of in some other form and I was like, wait a minute. Why is this guy
writing Harry Potter fanfic? I thought he was respectable. I thought he was trying to like
save the world with like robots or something, right? Like if you just from the, you know,
tertiary point of view. No, I was like, this is awesome. I was actually like, more intellectuals
should write Harry Potter fanfic. Hell yeah. I think that's his caption on TV tropes is like,
Dear God, the future of humanity is in the hands of someone who writes fan fiction.
Really, everyone should write fan fiction at least once. Yeah, it's a wonderful thing to do.
Worth a shot. Yeah. So you got into reading into the Harry Potter stuff and then from there you
found less wrong. Yeah, I found the sequences from the methods of rationality. I think he was
directly linking and some of the titles were directly based on the sequences. And at the
time I kind of was like, I love this fanfic. Wow, this is so nerdy and cool. And then I would like
jump over to the sequences and be like, I understand 20, 30% of this. This is hard. I'm
gonna come back to this later. And yeah, went in and out of that and kind of just kept coming back
to less wrong. And I felt like I was just like absorbing more and more of it over time. Awesome.
And I actually like super got into less wrong after I started reading Gorn.net. Gorn is my hero,
and actually like has a lot to do with why I became interested in clinical research
with his N of one studies. Right. So how long ago was this? I'm making her face. I don't remember.
I don't know. I think it was maybe like 2010, 2011, when I first found out about that. When did
methods of rationality come out? Because it was like, that sounds about right. You wrapped up in
2014. And there were like a couple of like slow years. So it stopped for a while. It was so upsetting
because I thought it was done. It's just like, yeah, no, it's another one of those things where
it's like, it's so cool. And then it's just like, they disappear and you never hear from them again
and they never write anything again. Please come back and write more. But yeah, that's it. I don't
know. So the God, I had a question, and it just completely spaced my mind because I was trying
to figure out the timeline of methods of rationality. You nerd sniped me, damn it.
I'm right there with you. I'm trying to think of years. I'm doing math in my head and it's not
adding up. I'm imagining that meme where like, it's like a dog looking at different like the
Pythagorean theorem and some algebra. Steven's looking it up, huh? Yep. Nice. Let me install
this one. Excellent. Started February 28, 2010. Okay. Oh, it went through March 2015. Not 14. That's
right. Okay. Yeah, but it was March. It was Pi Day. Yeah, exactly. So yeah, you got into the
rationality thing like really hard fast then, sounds like. I guess. I don't know how long
Lesserung had been around before methods of rationality. Been a little while. Yeah. I mean,
I think a lot of people actually jumped the bandwagon after methods of rationality. So I'm
like right there with a lot of people. It's I think like a third of the community came from that.
That was also kind of the point. Right. Yeah. I mean, I assume it was also fun
at parts anyway, where it didn't feel like work writing it. Yeah, I think that he said that was
one of the reasons for the big stop right near the, you know, three fourths point. He just stopped
being fun and started being work. Well, then we kind of all counted on him and I guess probably
been finishing it. So yeah. Well, positive peer pressure is fantastic for motivation. Yeah.
But you said you were in New Jersey then. How was the rational scene there? Oh,
that's right. That was a question I was going to ask. People are always asking us what the hell
is rationality good for? Was there like changes to your life before after? Was it any good for
anything? Yeah, absolutely. Like it changed my career path recently. And before then, I found
the Philadelphia Lesserung group. I don't know if there's anything in New Jersey. I think there's
a group in Princeton, which is cool, but I didn't know about them and I didn't actually end up hanging
out with any of them before I moved, which is kind of a shame. But um, yeah, I like made friends
through the community. I met you guys through the community part of like, you know, the reason
why I moved here is because I met a bunch of cool people through the rationality. So that was awesome.
Friendly reminder that you also made the art for our show. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then I went to the
Solstice in New York as well. And like, now I'm still Facebook friends with a bunch of people
I met there. And that was really kind of formative. Awesome. That was two years ago.
Well, um, two and then three, because I've been to two of them. Okay. Well,
welcome to Denver. We're glad you're here. Thanks. I love Denver. Yay. Everybody here is super nice.
It's actually like still creeping me out. Really? The fact that I can just put my turn signal on
and then like people will let you into traffic is such a culture shock. I have like a 60%
of success rate doing that. So I guess the fact that it happens at all is just shocking to me.
In New Jersey, people will just run you off the road. Yeah. How do you switch lanes?
You just have to play chicken. Jesus. It really is a nightmare to drive in places where people are
aggressive like that, which is, I still see it on the highway basically every time I'm on the
interstate, but like people will just force their way up 40 feet so that you can't get over. But
then they're only 40 feet closer to their destination than they would be otherwise.
And that just drives me nuts. Like we're all in this together. We're all gonna be on the highway
for like another hour. What time are you saving? What percentage of your trip? Like nothing.
It's more fun for them. The other thing about the interstate system in Denver is that like
when you enter the interstate usually have, it depends on the entrance, but a lot of them
have like 800 feet to get to 70 and get on before you hit a brick wall and die. So like
when people don't let you on on the main exit that I get on on it, it's like, it's not life or
death. I could just slam on brakes and stop on the shoulder, but that sounds really stupid and
dangerous. So just people are weird. There's a few exits here in Denver that are just
awfully designed. Done like in the 70s before anyone knew anything about traffic or some
shit. I don't know. Your road's here so well designed compared to what I'm used to on the
east coast. Dude, 6th Avenue on Wadsworth. Oh, that is a terrible, terrible ramp. Take a weekend
in Fort Collins just like an hour north of here. I have been to Fort Collins and actually it was
fine. They spend, it seems like they spend everything on just keeping the roads super
nice up there. Okay. I thought you were going to talk shit. I was like, no, I was able to get
everywhere. It was great. I lived in Fort Collins for like 25 years. It's great. Yeah. It's,
yeah, it was great. But like I mentioned, just the roads are night and day. Yeah.
This is obviously the highlight of the show. No way. All the roads here are really nice. I think
a lot of it has to do with the fact that there's more space. I find driving really boring and now
there's podcasts and audiobooks. But when I was a teenager, the way I made it less boring was to
like race. Same. And yeah, I wasn't racing anyone in specific, but I was just like, how fast can
I get there? What happens if I try to slalom through these cars? I never had that mentality.
I listened to a lot of Dragon Force while driving in my teens and it would just be like.
I did that too. Pumped you up. Yeah. But how did you do it? Not get all pumped up and want to race?
No, I still pumped up, but like I was kind of envisioning like killing demons with swords in
my head and just driving normally. So I've always been paranoid about cars because they're,
you know, one of the main things that kill people and also two of my best friends were killed in a
car accident when I was in my first year of college. So even worse now, I'm just like a very
defensive driver. Well, that's, yeah, that's the way it should, that's the way that people should
respond to cars. I have only recently, well, not recently, I guess like in the last five years,
gotten really conservative with how I drive. Just very, I don't know, grandma style. Good
grandma driving, not like blind grandma driving. I let everybody in. I'm in no rush. I don't,
I never gun it, you know, unless I'm trying to dodge something or make it, you know,
hit the speed on the interstate or something. But yeah, it's, I delivered pizzas through college
and then drove a lot for my last job. And I'm just, I just totally burned out on road rage.
I realized the difference between raging the whole time and not was like three minutes. And I'm
like, yeah, it's not worth it. It makes like no difference. Like the people that speed make me
so upset because I'm like, you're going to get where you're going maybe like five minutes
earlier than you would have just calm down. It's not worth it. It's not worth the risk to your
life and other people's lives and property damage. And just why are you doing this to yourself and
everyone? I just thought it was more fun. The cops finally beat it out of me with enough tickets.
I got one big ticket at some point and it was a drag. I had four big tickets. And after the fourth,
when I was like, I just cannot afford this. Except for the fifth one, they probably take your license
away. You only get so many speeding tickets. Well, it wasn't all in one year. Okay. But I mean,
it got to the point where if there were people driving behind me and they, you know, there's
the posts on the road sometimes holding up the side railing. And if there's a car like driving
through that and the headlights go through the posts, so like it flickers, it kind of looked like
cop lights flickering and like my adrenaline would spike and my heart rate would go up. And I was
like, this is no good. I can't do this anymore. Yeah, the worst ticket I got was when I was
driving to college, eating a banana and a state trooper pulled me over and was like,
distracted driving. I was like, but I didn't eat breakfast. Then he's like, oh, you know what,
you've got a little stuffed cat on your dashboard. That's a that's obstructed vision. So I'm going
to have to write you up for that too. Was he just fucking with you? No, he actually gave me a ticket
for it. And I just drove to college really mad. What the fuck? It was also I should mention a cop
that hit my friends and killed them in that car accident. So like, I don't love cops. Did you
that particular cop should be like? Not a cop. I was going to say worse things. But then I was
like, I shouldn't say worse things. But I think not a cop is a fair way to say at least not a cop
and probably spend some time in jail or some shit. This guy sounds awful. It was not the same cop.
Oh, oh, oh, I thought you said that it was. No, I said it was like also a cop.
Also the cop. Yeah, it's just I've had bad experiences, which I think a lot of people have
had. But mine's been mixed. I mean, obviously, my selection is bad is biased. I've had cops pull
me over like desperate to give me a ticket, but then they couldn't. And then I've had cops that
totally could. And I was apologetic and stupid. And you know, like, there was one time I was driving
my mom's car. And I had like three other people in the car. And one was my twin brother in the
back seat. And we get pulled over because I thought that the left lane was like a go through the
light lane, not a left turn only. Well, it was left turn only. So I go blazing and oncoming traffic.
And then the guy that I kind of cut off to, you know, save everyone's lives,
he just pulls over immediately to let the cop behind him pull me over before his lights were
even on. Okay. And then the guy comes out and he was like, and I explained to him what happened
and, you know, whatever. And I couldn't find the registration. Someone in the car was calling
my mom because I couldn't find it. Like, it's not my car. It's my mom's. She knows we have it.
I'm trying to find it. And so I handed my license and he was he looks at it. He's just like,
how do I know this is you? And I'm like, blank, because I look like the guy in the picture.
I thought that's why they had pictures. I was always so worried that someone's going to ask
that question, like prove this is you and your ID. And it's like, Oh, do you want to take my like
DNA? I don't know. Yeah, there's literally nothing you can ask me a survey of the information on the
license or you can look at the picture and look at me. I changed my hair a lot. So I always look
different in licenses. But the funny thing was I told him I was like, because I look like the guy
in the picture. And he's like, well, you know, someone else could look like the guy in the picture.
And I was like, I guess just my twin brother. And I brought to the backseat and he's like,
Oh, you've got a twin and he leans in with the flashlight. And he didn't give me a ticket. But
it was he, you know, I think it was jovial enough where he could have. And it wasn't like I was,
I was being, I don't know, it was reckless to like, I don't know what you call it. It wasn't
like reckless endangerment. It was just like, I've misread the lines, whatever. Yeah. But yeah,
mild incompetence. There you go. Yeah, if mild incompetence was a ticketable offense, nobody
be driving. Yeah, I think we talked about this before. Like I'm kind of on board with Steven
where like, I don't hate cops, though, I feel like I kind of was just really negative about cops
for no reason there. But like, I also was a volunteer EMT for a while, I worked pretty
closely with cops, there are good cops. It just tends to be one of those careers where
you can attract some really awful people who want to abuse power, just like politics.
And then I think, pretty nauseous point on that that he made that I think swayed me a bit was
like the fact that the institution doesn't shut that shit down really is reflective on the
the institution as a whole. Individual officers very, you know, their mileage may vary, but
yeah, I mean, the fact that, you know, people can do horrendous things and be caught and they get,
you know, the joke is they get a paid vacation, but often that's the case or they get, you know,
no punishment or whatever. I'm not sure what happened to that woman who went into the wrong
apartment and killed that dude a few months ago. But, you know, that sort of thing happens,
not that frequently. And the, I don't know, it's, it's like Trumpian to say like, hey, you know,
if you're investigating us, let me provide you, you know, the opposite of like, kind of what the
administration does, right? Where it's like, if you're, if you have integrity and you want to
actually do the right thing, you say, let me provide you everything we've got. I want the
responsible parties sacked as well. This has been terrible. But instead, you know, you hide stuff,
you lie, delete footage, whatever. Yeah, if you're doing that sort of stuff, you're not on the up
and up. No, the cops, the cop singular who killed my friends was on suicide watch was doing 70 miles
per hour on a 35 mile per hour road and ran a red light supposedly chasing someone and then just
hit them, drove their car into another car, and also like really seriously injured a dad and his
kids in the other van. And then he just kind of got off with a little slap on the wrist. And
everybody was like, oh, that poor cop. I was working for someone at the time who was like
friends with this cop and was like that poor man, he didn't deserve to have such a terrible thing
happen to him. And I was, I had to quit. I had to quit that job. After you killed your co-worker or
no, after the after that, um, I made a joke that your co-worker didn't get away from this like
in like hot coffee splash on their face or something. Yeah. Actually, it was a coffee shop.
