about. I mean, I'd like to think that actually I did this I can confirm even though I can't well,
I don't know if I haven't did this like to save my life on the highway, but I did do this a little
bit in Japan, like I can't read Japanese. But I could look at what the place is called on my phone
in the whatever the kanji and just line it up and be like that looks the same. This is
probably it. You weren't trying to drive down the highway. Exactly. Yes, I wasn't on the interstate.
Yeah, maybe that's the point is like a lot of these things aren't like the things that you need
to do to live every day. But it sure is a handy tool to be able to like do basic addition when
you're grocery shopping or something. Or just have a framework of understanding of like a big,
I don't know, I want to say the word magisteria and that's a terrible word.
One of my thinking of paradigm, maybe a big paradigm, because so much of our lives is digital now,
and it's just going to become more and more that and if kids don't know how to program,
I almost feel like that's like not knowing how to read where maybe kids didn't need to know how
to read quote unquote when there is mostly agricultural stuff going on. But like the
industrial revolution shifted everything so far in the other direction that those kids would have
gotten left behind real quickly. Yeah. And also like just I feel like it's almost depriving somebody
of understanding something that's so integral and so interesting to I'm having like a failure
of being able to come up with words again, somebody else talk. No, I think you know what
you're saying though. And if anything, I moved to learn more Python, I know the very basics,
but that's excellent. It's useful. I've never written a Python script for something to do at
home and to be like, Hey, you know, I've actually thought about this too. Like when you download
a torrent program, and I'm sure there's already things tools that do this online for you, but
I'm not sure where they are. You get whatever game dot thrones dot or whatever game and it's all
separated by periods and it's got the year and like whatever the torrent or his name on it.
I've never done this, of course, because I'm a good, you know, whatever, yes, copyright loving
American. But I've heard tell of this type of thing. It'd be super easy to write something that
recognizes the period spacing and just replace that with spaces and then give everything proper
capitalization. That sounds super doable. I should do something like that. And Python sounds like a
great language for it too. Okay, cool, fun, fun idea, writing this down, steal stealing my own
ideas. So the point that was made is that most of what we desperately want to say to Archimedes
is not obvious relative to Archimedes culture. This strongly suggests that the most important
things the future would want to say to us are amazingly enough, not things that everyone already
knows. If you want to really benefit humanity, you've got to do some original thinking, come up
with the sort of non obvious idea that you would speak into a chronophone. And you have to do some
hard thinking about areas of application and directions of effort. You can't just run off
in the direction of what your contemporary culture has instilled as the reflex answer to the question,
how can I benefit humanity? And I think this is really like, knowing now what I know about
where the rest of the sequence is going, I see that this is where he's setting us up for. Yeah,
this AI shit sounds really weird, especially here in 2008, but I'm talking to you from the future.
Right, but like, you're going to have to do some weird thinking and stuff that does not come to
mind automatically when people say, how can I benefit humanity? If you really want to actually
benefit humanity the same way that someone from the future could benefit our community society?
That's what I love about Yudkowsky's approach to everything is that, I mean, the sequences
weren't just for him to get, you know, ad revenue on less wrong, right? The whole, the whole goal
was to raise the sanity waterline enough to get enough people. And luckily, he's a good writer
and he's charismatic and all that helps. And so from when he started writing the sequences to when
Miri got like sufficient funding took what, 15 years? Something like that, 10 to 15? Yeah,
just what a couple years ago, one of their, one of the early less wrongers was one of the people
who made a fortune on Bitcoin. And they now no longer have funding needs, right? So this paid
off. The whole thing was, you know, let's get people on. If that's not long term awesome strategies
and taking a novel approach to solving a problem, I don't know what is. Not only paid off and getting
Miri funded and noticed and everything, but now there's people that can work on these things
because they've had this training in rationality. Yeah, I think that's really cool. That's fantastic.
Was that the whole second one? Yeah, the the ramp up was the point of the
chronophone dilemma is to make us think about what kind of cognitive policies are good to follow
when you don't know your destination in advance. If you can just tell our communities to build a
capitalist society, because your culture already knows that's a good idea, it defeats the purpose
of the dilemma. The chronophone. The chronophone transmits cognitive policies, not sentences.
What sort of thinking are we doing now that is analogous to the thinking that we wish our
communities had done then? And I think this is when people ask us what good is rationality. I
think this is basically the answer that rationality is about trying to find good cognitive policies,
not necessarily like good actual answers, but good policies that work to get us to these goals
that we didn't know we had. Yeah, and that we didn't know we had is I think the crux there,
right? Because I certainly wasn't really concerned about AI before I read this stuff and it took
years of getting into the community before I really thought about it. I think that rationality
isn't necessarily how to achieve a goal, it's how to have find the right, like I said, the right
mental tools to be able to pursue your goals in general. Yeah, we had our monthly meetup
last night, there were a couple of first timers and wait, at least one first timer. When newcomers
come and if they're not already have they haven't drank the Kool-Aid, they're kind of like, what
do you guys do? What are you guys about? And it's not really like a skeptic meetup where it's like,
oh, we talk about, you know, consumer protection, you know, about like not buying snake oil and,
you know, not giving my money in tithes to those damn religious people. We don't, I mean, there's
things that is popular in rationality, EA, AI, other abbreviations for things. But it's more
about, yeah, fostering a community of, I mean, as far as the meetup, so I told somebody last
night, you know, because when we had dinner, when Robin Hansen came for Harris's podcast,
a few of us got to chill with him. He asked, like, what does your guys's community do? And I'm like,
nothing. But that's not the right answer. The right answer, the real answer, not just the right
one, is that like, exactly. Well, he said like some people, some groups that he goes to, like,
they're doing like the next blockchain, whatever this person's doing this, whatever. But all we're
doing is kind of cultivating a community of that sort of mindset. And so it's a group of
sane people that I can talk to and say, what do you guys think about this, that I can trust them
to actually know how to assess that and give me, you know, feedback that matters. And hopefully,
I can be the same for them, right? So, you know, you can do all this in your basement, reading
less wrong if you want, but doing it in real life gives you that external, I guess, motivator and
sounding board, you know, because you can't do it, you probably can't do it perfectly by yourself.
Having other people to do this, do thinking with makes, who would have thought collaboration is
useful, right? I get a lot of value out of, again, the kind of productive peer pressure,
or like the positive peer pressure, if I'll actually like actively ask people now and now
that it is cool, because I know people in the community who it's like, hey, you want to go to
the library with me, and then like, we can force each other to do things that we want to do, but
like aren't doing right now. And that was something that I could never get in like my other social
circles, because it would be like, people would pay lip service to the idea and then not do it in
this community, people actually will do it. I love that. I like that too. And even though we
didn't go to the library on Tuesday together, I went to library by myself and do trickle down
effects. So Stephen, what are we going to be talking about next time? Next week, we have actually
one of the most popular, I guess popular to me, probably other people, but that's the, so the
first one is self deception, hypocrisy or acracia, which sounds fun. And then the other one, which
sounds way more fun is Seruko Naritae, which is Japanese for I want to become stronger.
That was a damn good post. Yeah, it was fun. And I think that one's memorable too.
It's one of the ones that sticks out in my memory. Yeah.
I still say that to myself. Nice. Yeah. Like I haven't read it, I think, in years and years,
but yeah, I remember it. That's sort of the final message that Harry has for himself in
Methods of Rationality. It's like, I need to level up my game. It's, and that's valuable, right?
And hopefully it doesn't take almost destroying the world to do that. So.
And that's, we will have links to it on less, not less wrong, Jesus, on the basinconspiracy.com,
if you would like to read ahead along with us. And then we'll talk about it in our next episode
in two weeks. Yeah, cool. And we don't have a patron to name this week. What we do have is
somebody who wanted to remain anonymous, but they joined us, I guess what, almost two weeks ago.
And they more than doubled our podcast income, which is great. It blew our mind. I contacted
him. I contacted the person twice to say, are you sure you didn't like mean to press a decimal
point here? It's an extra zero that wasn't supposed to be there. Yeah. So. But it turns out, no.
No, it was intentional. Very generous, awesome patron. Yeah. So what we plan to do with that,
that income is to upgrade our equipment. First things first, we noticed that's what
led to our tangent on animal rights was stopping to talk about the computer. There might be some
lossy data here. We're not sure, but it looks like there might have been. Yeah, we'll find out.
We're going to buy a solid state drive. So that shouldn't happen for that anymore. Maybe some
new microphones, or something. Yeah, possibly. If you find like a microphone that you think is good,
let me know. Yeah, I'll definitely look into it just because it'd be nice to have one record
a quarter remotely that doesn't totally suck. Yeah. But yeah. Anyway, that blew our mind.
Yeah. I just wanted to let. That was amazing. Thank you again. Yes, thank you. I wanted to let
you know that everyone here is aware of it. And it's your generosity is remarkable. And so is
our generosity of every person who ever wants to donate us, you know, throws a buck. Definitely.
It all matters. Yeah. You know, this all goes to keeping the lights on, keeping the show online,
and not costing. Actually, I started putting everything online. So it was really costing
him money at first for like the first year and year and a half. Yeah. That reminds me. When did
we were coming up on what episode 78? That's not a big anniversary, but it's what almost three years.
Is it? When did we start? Well, if we're doing every an episode every two weeks, 52 would have been
two years. Yeah. Yeah, we're coming right up on on three years. We might have just passed it.
Okay. Cool. And next month to us next month is our four year anniversary for our local
song meetups. Yes. Yeah. Party. Yeah. I'm getting old. That's what I'm hearing here. I have some
listener feedback about that, but we are out of time because it's 930 about aging. Yeah. Speaking
of getting old, it's also getting late. So we're going to have to get back to the listener feedback
next time because there were a number of cool things that I wanted to hit on from the listeners,
and we just ran out of time again. Sounds good. I will just point out to Taylor Balkan that I
read this late star codex post you linked to and that was really cool. And I want to talk about it,
and we will. Next time. Yeah. Cool. Alrighty. Yeah. So that's what we got for this week's episode
or this I say week. I know it is this week. Think for this by weeks episode. Yeah. Someone asked
they hate their Patreon or not the Patreon their podcast feed is drying up and I totally sympathize
with that. And I have an idea for an off week podcast that isn't division conspiracy. Okay.
That I think would be a lot of fun. Okay. And that's cooking, but I'm not pitching the idea yet.
If anyone's interested that there's something brewing, stuff's brewing. That's what I wanted
to get out there. Okay. Yeah. Super fun. Super cryptic. Oh, also, speaking of things that
happened not related to the podcast, I wanted to mention that I was recently, the serial novel
I'm putting out online, What Lies Dreaming, I recently got it accepted, I guess, included in
the web fiction online, which lists a bunch of them. So you can now vote for it every week.
Once a week, if you want to at top web fiction, and I will post a link here. And yeah, it helps out
if you want to do that. There's a little link at the bottom of every chapter as well as a little
link at the bottom of the front page. And it'll get the word out to more people if you're reading it.
Oh, that's awesome. Yeah. I'll include the link this one time because I mentioned it in this
podcast, but definitely not everyone will also include a link to your book, which should be there.
Okay. Which is great. I've only read the first chapter. All right. But it's not because I didn't
because I'm bad at juggling new characters and names and stuff. I would like to finish Ward
first, but honestly, it's gonna be like another two years. So maybe I'll just, I've got some time
I'll get caught up on yours, but you're still a good writer. Everyone should check them out.
Oh, thank you. And I'm not just saying that. Yeah, can confirm. Yeah, if you saw it, I'd be like,
it's not for me, but that's all I'm saying. So it's great.
