I actually had a minor religious debate with someone less than a year ago. That's refreshing,
isn't it? Yeah. It's like, let me dust off the old boxing gloves. Oh, they're still, they're still
fit. Yeah. I hate doing religious debates with people because it always makes both of us sad.
Oh, it depends on the person. Yeah, certainly. I haven't had a bad natured one in over a decade.
Like the good natured ones are, you know, people who, you know, approaching the rationalist community
mindset were like, no, I just think this is true. And I'm like, well, I don't. Here's why. And they're
like, no, I get it. Oh, that's cool. But, you know, as long as you're a little friendly,
you want to just hash it out for a bit and, you know, have fun and have a drink or something.
It's never been like, geez, you're a fucking idiot, man. Mine was with two other guys and
me and the one other guy, like, got into it pretty decently. There was a little bit of like
exasperation on both sides, but we were having a fun time, right? The third guy only poked us
head in on occasion, but by the end of it, he was devastated. He was like, I feel so bad for your
immortal soul. Oh my God, you don't deserve to go to hell. And I was like, dude, I'm so sorry for
you. That's the kind of thing that makes me sad. My response to that is always like, I feel bad
for yours because you're not a Muslim or because you're not a Mormon or you don't have cryonics.
Yeah, well, or that. But like, well, that's the that's my real answer. Right. Like some,
but my cheeky answer is like, you know, the God of the New Testament or the Old Testament and the
New whatever is sort of an vindictive prick. And if it's not like just have faith and you get in,
it's like, it's my way or the highway. Here's the long list of rules. I'm very clear. I'm vaguely
clear about it. And you're going to burn in hell forever. If you don't do what I say,
there's not as far as, you know, like the mutterings of the new pope aside, I don't think there's a
lot of like biblical support for the idea of like, we just care about that you have a sense of, you
know, good and bad, good, good and bad or gratitude towards the universe or something. And that's
enough, right? It's, oh, I have so much gratitude towards the universe. Not that I think the universe
is like sentient or anything, but it's like, wow, it's really cool that I exist. Yeah. No,
Dan Dennett talks about that a lot. And I think we'll talk about that. Yeah, we're going to
dive into the new atheists, if you want, if you guys are ready. Sure. I didn't mean to keep
steering here. I'm just kind of on a roll. I'm kind of hyped up. So it's good times. Yeah. It's
the hot cocoa. It's actually probably they have a dural I had like eight hours ago. So the steroids
got me all jazzed. Yeah, should be a fun episode then. I'm moderating pretty well. So we'll do
all right. I think we're doing good. Good. If my speech goes too fast, let me know.
We'll just slow you down in post.
If only it was that easy. I know. So you had a thing you were bringing up?
Yeah, pull up the title again. Yeah, the title of this late star coast codex. I can't talk either.
Post was how did new atheism fail so miserably? And I was thinking about it recently because I
recently reread the God Delusion, which I remember really enjoying when I first read it.
And I kind of came back to it because I was like, I remember the arguments and this being so good.
And I kind of reread it. And I was like, these are still good arguments. But like,
I don't know, like whatever happened to all of this. And I remembered this article too.
And I went back and reread it. And I kind of like just started getting really upset.
So what is the central thrust of the article?
Kind of like as you can, you know, imagine from the title, new atheism was a thing. It was in the
media. The Four Horsemen were writing books. And it seemed like at the time, like I was in
college and I was really idealistic. And I was like, yeah, you know, science is like
improving the world and these new atheists are out in public. And this is just going to be like
the way of the future. And then like it just disappeared in the past, like what five years?
I mean, I think he has a very good explanation for that, which we can,
which I agree with and which we can go into. But I, I never thought that like, I mean, I was,
I was an atheist before it was cool. But that's hipster. Yeah, seriously. No, but I mean, like
before any of the new atheism thing broke, it was, it was, it was already brewing online for
years before that, right? And I was part of that whole scene. I'd listened to Jeff D on the nonprofits,
which later became the atheist community of Austin. And that was a cool scene. I mean, there was,
there was a whole thing. I listened to the infidel guy, man, Reggie, that takes me back.
This was before they had like Reddit and other places to gather. So everyone had their own like
website and forums that you would go on to. Those are kind of the days. Yeah. But,
but the thing is like, I never really had any delusions that the mass of the world would come
over to atheism in my lifetime, in, in my lifetime, meaning in the next, you know, 60 years or something.
I obviously hope to have a very long lifetime, but colloquially using that term. I was like, yeah,
you know, all I'm trying to do is gain some acceptance for my tribe so that we can actually
hold office openly and not be spat upon and not be the most hated minority in the country. You
know, that's what I'm going for. That's what I want. And I think we won that pretty damn hard.
And all the people who were like, yeah, atheism is going to take over. We're going to be the new
Christianity and the whole country is going to get rational. I was like, are you fucking kidding
me? Have you met the average human that's, that's never going to happen. All I want is some semblance
of like respect and rights. It's interesting. I remember, let me adopt a kid, you know,
was that a thing? I'm sure. Oh yeah. It was a big thing. That was a dumb question.
It's as bad as trying as like a homosexual adopt a kid, you know, they're going to pervert them
and turn them into their godless, evil ways. That seems like so long ago, but it's, that seems
like so long ago, but every year in Trump years feels like 10 years. So like this feels like
30 years ago, but it was like 10. I remember during the Bush era, like, you know, there, that was
like the, what was the quote that the secretary or the press secretary put out that was like the
reality based community or something, which is kind of a weird, yeah, we're like, we're all kind of
reality based community people, as opposed to your fantasy based community. But yeah, it was the,
the push of, like you said, you know, I remember this was like all the surveys and stuff that
were in all these new atheist books of, you know, look, 2%, or what was it 10% people said they'd
vote for an atheist or something. It was like, this was like in 2003, and it was like, like,
three times less than the number of people who'd say they vote for a Muslim president.
Not to say that voting for a Muslim president is a bad idea, but across the average American,
you know, the average, whatever, post 9-11 American, they were like, I'd rather have a Muslim in
the White House than an atheist. And we've crossed that line recently in the last two years,
we're finally less unpopular than Muslims.
Yay, all right. Well, has Muslim popularity gone down or is done?
Has Muslim popularity gone down to meet us, or did we just go up with go above where they were
at? I think it was both. That's a drag. I'd like the numbers just to keep going up for everybody,
but whatever. As far as like the God's Illusion, that was the first one I read. And I, I think I've,
I went over my like religious background of the show were way back in the day. But the real short
version is, is that I sort of believed tacitly, like you kind of believe everything your parents
tell you. I used it, I used the analogy of like believing that Japan existed. Like I've never
been there. I'd seen it on TV, people told me it was real. 10 books. Yeah, exactly. And so that was
sort of my take on, on, on religious claims. And it just turned out like in my early and mid teens,
they sort of fell apart under scrutiny, actually catalyzed by George Carlin. He was like the first
public person I saw who was like making fun of religion. And I was like, I thought just everybody
bought into this. Turns out they don't. The God Illusion was, I haven't read it,
you know, since it was relatively new. I imagine it wouldn't be as much fun. I think
it's interesting too. And I want to caveat, I mentioned this before, but Dawkins in that book
is like at his most grumpy. Which still is not very grumpy. No, he's still nice. I mean, his,
his most grumpy, I think is his Twitter more recently. That's fair. I should, I should mention
his grumpiest book. Twitter destroys everybody's brain. I think that's fair. That's that Sam Harris
just had a, the CEO Twitter on his podcast. And they, they talked about that a little bit.
And then he just had Stephen Fry on earlier this week or last week.
I listened to most of that one, but it was so depressing. I had to stop.
It was pretty depressing. Stephen Fry is a really jovial dude. And he,
it was a pretty, pretty bumming episode. But you mentioned the Four Horsemen. They had this
two hour conversation that they had on YouTube that's still out there for free. But they're
releasing, I think the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Science and Reason. And is it Center for
Inquiry or like now one big, whatever organization? Oh, we should quickly interject for anyone who
doesn't know the Four Horsemen of New Atheism were, I was going to get there. Oh, okay. Sorry.
No, no, no, that's totally fine. I was going to mention that there's a transcript of this
two hour conversation that's coming out in book form. Okay. Yeah, but the Four Horsemen,
our docs as our, our docs, Richard Dawkins. Nice. Yeah, Richard Dawkins, Daniel Danette,
Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens. They were the first four really big people that came out and
sort of led the movement after 9-11. Yeah. They were the really like prominent ones. There were a
bunch of other atheists and actually a lot of people kind of brought up how annoying it was that
people only wanted to focus on these like old white intellectuals when there were a bunch of
queer people and people of color and so forth and so on, blogging about this stuff. But anyway.
Harris wasn't even old yet. Yeah, he was like, well, yeah, he was the young, he was the baby of the
he was. But the, the, yeah, certainly it's been a conversation for a while. I think what set them
apart is they all had bestselling books on the subject. And so I think I get where the Slate
Sarcotics post talks about how the movement failed, but it did accomplish a lot of stuff. And like,
it's not like these people made a lot of noise and then everyone hated them and they shut up
forever. Like they made a lot of noise, wrote books, made a fortune on the subject or whatever,
made real money on the subject and they helped change the culture a little bit. Yeah. I mean,
nowadays, everyone knows someone who's an atheist. Do they? Maybe. I think so. Even like,
there's even people in the deep South that like will be on YouTube and they're like, all about
my guns and my beer. But you know, I'm not necessarily into this church thing and that's
all right. And like, that's cool. Yeah. And you know, they all talk about that whenever they,
whenever the, you know, their books come up or something, but they, they still get people
writing in being like, Hey, I just came across the end of faith. I live in Pakistan. This just
changed my life. So these, these, the content still reaches people and the, what I like about
their approaches is that they all really had different ways of analyzing this whole thing.
Richard Dawkins came at it from the point of view of a disgruntled scientist who couldn't
believe after like 60 years, he still had to argue that evolution was real. Yeah, specifically an
evolutionary biologist. Yeah. And so his, his thing was just like, wait, you guys don't believe
it because of your religion? Well, that's fucking dumb, right? Wait, you don't think so? Okay. Well,
geez, fine. So his, the God delusion is him just like grumpily arguing, like making, and again,
it's, it's a pretty, he's a light, cheerful person for the most part. The book is actually
very poetic. A lot of that, like, what I really liked about Dawkins back in the day was that he
used to write in this kind of like, almost a poetic language where even in the God delusion,
he kind of would kind of wax poetic about evolution and science. And like, there were just
these great quotes that you could pull from it that made you feel kind of hopeful and optimistic
about the world. According to Stephen, who's read some of his other books, like all his books
are like that, right? Yeah, grant is not the grand design that's Stephen Hawking, the greatest show
on earth, but Unweaving Rainbow is one I always plug. Yeah. So the last chapter, I think of the
God delusion is the, what it's called, something that word burkas in the title, but he imagines,
he's trying to just sell like, he's trying to challenge the position that like, oh,
the scientific worldview is bleak and annoying, and really only the religious view offers anything
worth, you know, being happy about and being inspired by. And he was like, check this out.
And he uses this metaphor of like a burka with like a one inch slit that, you know, that's all
you can see the world in. And that, so he's like, all right, cool. Well, just imagine like, that's
the band of visible light that one inch, the actual presumptible light waves go up for miles and go
down miles past what you can see. The world is so much grander than you're just aware of through
the little lens that you have. So that was that is like, I think I said, that's the last chapter.
And that's kind of signing off on like, to me, the more happier note of the book from what I
remember, it's been like 10 years. It ended up being kind of an unfortunate metaphor, because
a lot of what he and the other horsemen got slammed for was homophobia or Islamophobia.
I can't like, put words into concepts tonight. Phobia phobia. What is Islamophobia, by the way?
Just hating Muslims. So do they hate Muslims or they hate Islam?
I think they just hate religion. But the fact that they tended to specifically rail on Islam
got them a lot of hate from the left. Yeah, I noticed that. And I knew the distinction before
I asked, but I just think it's an important one. Because I do think that hating, hating or being
fearful of, which is I think what phobia is, is implying. It's what's the definition. Yeah,
that's what it means. But in common parlance, things like Islamophobia and homophobia just mean
like, dislike it against. Yeah. But I think being bigoted against
set of ideas is different than being big, bigoted against people. I realized in practice,
that's really hard to space out. And if you tell somebody, it's just like religious person saying,
I don't like, I don't like what you do, but I like you, right? You know, if you're gay or something.
And again, many, many religious people don't have a problem with gay people. It's just, it's,
the Bible is pretty clear on where you should stand on gay people. So anyone who's read it and
takes it to heart doesn't buy kind of de facto, doesn't like gay people, otherwise they'll go to
hell. So, and I realized that biblical scholarship is a lot like comic book scholarship, where you
can say, well, if you read between the lines here, really, it means this.
Or even if you read this verse directly, it happens to contradict all the other verses.
Yeah, all the other verses. Yeah, there's a, this was back in the days when I was,
you know, having fun arguing, there was like a paraphrased Bible that just highlighted the
crazy shit. There's all kinds of online interactive things that just show contradictions,
like direct ones, and they have like a line with a chapter and verse, and then have like a line at,
you know, later on where it says the exact opposite. Yeah.
Oh man, I'm just reminded of, I was like a dick when I was first coming out as an atheist,
and I did this thing where I pulled a bunch of facts from the Bible about Easter that were
all contradictory, and I was like, hey family, do you want to do a quiz? Yeah, okay, you remember
the Easter challenge? I did that to my family, my sister cried. Why would she cry? Because like,
she thought that I was actually like coming back to the faith, and then like, I was like,
haha, I played a joke on you. They're all correct. What's the Easter challenge? You cannot make a
cohesive narrative out of the four accounts of Jesus' resurrection in the four gospel books.
Yeah, so you can go to religious first and be like, which one of these is the correct
biblical interpretation of Easter, and they're all correct? Yeah, I don't know how you square
that circle. That's part of why I'm not religious, and that's actually, it's a metaphor, Stephen.
Well, but that sounds tongue-in-cheek, but except it's not because he's supposed to have been real,
and so like, it's a metaphor, except when we want it to be real, Stephen. The apostles disagree on
what his lineage was and his ancestry, and it's like, it's either this or this, right?
The lineage thing, I don't even think it's that big a deal, because you know, whatever
lineage is, they get mixed up, but yeah, not having a cohesive story of the most important
event of your religion is a bit embarrassing, in my opinion. Yeah, it's literally what your
religion is founded on. This guy came back to life. And like I said, that's why I'm not religious,
because I can't make myself just be like, well, I'll just live with that, what do you call that
disharmony in your brain, cognitive dissonance. So that sounds tongue-in-cheek, but it's not.
If I notice that I believe contradictory things, it grinds at me until I drop one.
Well, it turns out that most people just don't care.
Exactly. And I'm one of the people who does, and so I can't.
When I was a new atheist and had come out of the Jehovah's Witness faith, I was like,
