You will never find things just by looking at the real world because the real world is but a
shadow of the true forms of things. The bummer is that Plato was mostly wrong.
Yeah. No, how do we actually get the scientific method? What I thought of immediately was alchemy
and the idea wasn't like, let's discover the scientific method. It was let's transmute something
into gold. And the fact that they kept failing to transmit something into gold means that,
okay, we didn't do it right. Something else. Okay, we didn't do that right. Obviously,
this isn't the correct thing. Something else. So something like iterative attempt set something
with like a really high tolerance for failure. A lot of the scientific method or the starting
of it was just the practice of writing shit down. Yeah, that's true. You mean like both your
predictions and your results? No, just the results even writing it down, but also like
testing it first because I think a lot of there was this armchair philosophizing about, okay,
here's how the heavens work. Here's how the humors work. And people are just like, okay,
that sounds right. But if you're trying to, you know, transmute something into gold, if it's not
gold at the end of that process, then you fucked up. Yeah, 700 years ago, like it was just natural
philosophy was the closest thing that I had to science. That was people like, like Aristotle
going out to the beach and lining up a bunch of dead animals and just like, this looks kind of
like that. These things are closely related, which like was better than anyone had ever done.
But he also had some weird shit. I think we mentioned this once before that like men have
more teeth than women. And no one ever counted. No one counted. Well, then again, actually,
how many people had all of their teeth during that time period? And somebody wrote in with
the correction on maybe I got something wrong there, but he made errors kind of that basic.
But what he did was he was out there cataloging stuff. And that was like an innovation. So yeah,
writing stuff down is a big step. I mean, I know a lot of the early scientists, not really scientists,
but I mean, they started out as hobbyists who were just like, I'm really interested in birds.
I'm going to write down every bird I observe. And you know, oh, these these star, I'm really
interested in stars. I think Tycho Brahe had like 10 years of observations of just the movements of
the planets just written down every night. He's like, this is the this is the coordinates where
this was at. And just tomes of data, which he kept because he was a weird eccentric dude.
And, you know, Kepler used that to to form his theories of motion. Human databases. Yeah,
I mean, just writing things down. It's having people meet. They're like, we're really interested
about this aspect of the natural world. Let's talk about it and write down everything we see.
And and eventually science grew from that. I think observation is a really good first step
and like kind of a value of the scientific method. And also writing it down. So recording
your observations. Would that turn into anything if you told our comedies record your observations?
I think so because we already know it's like interacting with the malicious genius like
determines to misinterpret you. How did our comedies misinterpret write down what you what
you discover? Well, because we already know it's a good idea to write things down and to compare
data. So for our comedies, it would be like, it's a really good idea to consult a wise man
who who has this knowledge. But the difference is like, we're saying not how to get it, we're
saying how to share it or store it. So like the wise man is a store of knowledge, right?
And he shares it with people who ask him. Okay. Our comedies also did experiments and stuff.
Like he was able to measure like the volume of like weirdly shaped objects by placing them in
water and measuring the displaced water, right? Right. Yeah. I believe so. Wasn't the whole bathtub
Eureka thing? I think those are comedies. I don't think so. But I don't know some but well,
our comedies in particular, whoever it is, we're talking to some Greek skimming the comments to
try and cheat. And I've noticed this, you know, years ago, but it's funny, Robin Hansen's handle
on less wrong is Robin Hansen too. I don't know if you forgot Robin Hansen or someone else took
it, but that's really funny to me. Well, we've we've used up our five minutes. Yeah. We only get
five minutes. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah, that was that was our comedies. All right. You
don't want to guess what Robin Hansen's advice was. Wait, make prediction markets halfway there.
All right. That on things. Yeah. Robin Hansen said 12 years ago that it would it would sure help
if you could speak into one end and then hear how it comes out of the other end and then edit and
repeat. If so, I try and encourage him to make useful devices that make money and create a tradition
of this activity. Yeah. Well, again, that was the gold. You need like an incentive to get things
right. We think it's pretty obvious nowadays, though, that economic advancement is a good idea.
It's not even necessary. Well, I guess it's also economics, because if you, for example, cure a
disease, now you can sell the cure. But but yeah, no, that's good Robin Hansen. Actually, I was
trying to think of a way to phrase that of like, find something that people actually care about
getting the answer right about whether it's curing a disease or whether it's transmuting gold, and
then be like, pursue this, try a lot of things, be really open to failure, iterate, whatever that
would come out as an Archimedes time. I don't know. I mean, I don't, I think they already have the
values of truth is good, and persistence and hard work is good. That wouldn't be new information
we'd be giving them. But then why were people, you know, able to just like make up shit about
how many teeth people had or how the stars worked? And then everybody was like, sounds right.
Like it didn't matter what what the truth was, because nobody was making money off of it,
or curing a disease, or you know, nobody's life depended on it. That's actually that adds more
actual wisdom, I think to Robin Hansen's reply. I sort of just took it as like a funny like, of
course, you're an economist, you would say make money. But that's super uncharitable. I didn't
really think about it as just reading it. Obviously, you can make money on super valuable
discoveries. And if you find something that, hey, look, it turns out if you put your hands in, you
know, like whatever clean salt water and rub them around a little bit, and then you do surgery,
people die a lot less, you know, something like that, you could sell that knowledge and save lives
or something, right? So yeah, if it has money, there's there's incentive. That's actually a good
suggestion that sadly was not borne out by what actually happened in history. No, when it was
proven that washing your hands reduces mortality in surgery by a fuck ton. People were like,
we don't believe you. Are you implying that we're dirty doctors? And like,
it didn't catch on for I think 20 years after that. As far as how long it takes things to
catch on pre internet, you think that people would have, you know, been able to make money
by not killing their patients as quickly, you think doctors be interested in anything,
and able to interpret statistics. And yes, it was a whole sat affair. Even more recently,
Atul Gawande wrote the checklist manifesto where he was, you know, advocating for have a checklist
of the things that you need to do when you're performing surgery or doing some kind of medical
operation. Because often people are, you know, humans and they're prone to human error. And
also nurses and doctors work crazy schedules and they forget stuff like oops, I sewed that
patient up with the scalpel in their chest, or you know, having a checklist. It seems like such
an obvious thing. But people are like, Oh, are you saying that I'm like stupid and I need a
checklist. I'm a doctor. I've got you know, yeah, there was a lot of pushback against the
checklists. I feel like that's kind of the same thing too. We're like, you know, somebody who's
not an expert in this field is coming in and being like, Hey, guess what? You salt water.
They're like, Yeah, like, okay, who's the doctor here? Anyways, yeah, that's, that's just a bummer.
Not rationalists are doing that, though. Rationalists would be like, that's one of the
strengths of argument from authority. Well, well, yeah, so we see that as well,
I kind of the reverse, like, I'm an authority watcher listen to you, but a rationalist would
be like, Oh, you've got data. Give me, right? I hope so. That's kind of the goal. Yeah. Like,
if you tell me, I would think that if I was a surgeon, I'd be like, I would totally understand
where they're coming from. I'm the fucking doctor. I've been doing this for 15 years. I almost never
screw up. Why do I need your stupid suggestion, you non doctor. But if you were a true Bayesian,
you would say, Oh, wow, you've got survey studies or whatever data that show that this actually
does reduce incidences. If you're a true Bayesian, you also have to take into consideration how much
you trust your source. And maybe they didn't trust the source of that guy, since he was not a doctor,
you know, they're like, what could you possibly know? This is more, you know, scamming, trying to
get money from us or something, trying to build up your own name so you can sell a lot of books.
Yeah, but all right, fair enough. But it's, you know, just to back and forth on that,
there's a very low cost thing to hang this thing up and try every year, right? You don't have to
pay for the pace of paper once. And it's probably like eight cents. So I guess medical grade papers,
$10. I thought you were talking about the hand washing until Gawande is like, actually,
I forget what his position was at the time. I think he was like the head of like a bunch of
hospitals and actually like a very authoritative figure. I think the checklist thing does have
a cost though. You can't just go right in and do your surgery. You have to go through this tedious
checklist every single time. And that's a pain in the ass. I have a checklist. Yeah, I have a checklist
at work for the closing of the accounts that I do every month. I update that checklist two weeks
later when I'm all done, because I'm like, I don't have time for this fucking checklist right now.
I got to do my work and I'm already working long hours. Well, that's, that's a number on the plus
side. On my procedure today, I was able to watch because I could see like they've got the, the
some sort of x-ray, but it's like live, hopefully it's on x-rays because I didn't have anything
covering my, my nethers, but my, I can't see your penis on an x-ray anyway. There's no bones in it.
Oh, it wasn't, it wasn't a telescope. That's not my point.
No, the, I was more worried about x-rays damaging my sperm, right?
But I could see where the needles were and stuff and watching them putting a dye and all that.
And luckily, since I was able to watch, I could see them taking both out because he put in like
the little prep needles and stick stuff into them and then pull those things out. I'm pretty sure
I'd be able to feel it like this too, but it was just, you know, I could see they did all the right
stuff because I was able to watch. So not, that's a tangent. That wasn't related at all.
Yeah. Damn it, Steven. You were doing so good. So I think the main point of our committee's
chronophone was to set up the next post, Chronophone Motivators, which I thought made some
really interesting points. So, Alias starts up by saying the challenge is supposed to be difficult.
It's really hard to get somewhere when you don't already know your destination.
If there were some simple cognitive policy, you could follow to spark moral and technological
revolutions without your home culture having advanced knowledge of the destination, you could
execute that cognitive policy today. That actually, I'm going to go back to where I didn't read all
the comments, but that again is the one of the wisdoms of Robin's answer. Like making money was
already a value 2000 years ago, right? Presumably. I mean, sort of. It was, it was, depending on your
culture, it was often really looked down upon. Like merchants were dirty and it was really
a scandal when they started gaining political power because they didn't come to it honestly.
Yeah. Not making money, having money, having money in your family, being an aristocrat.
Right. Right. Having money is good. Making money makes you like a dirty merchant trader person.
It's a nouveau riche. Yeah.
And I totally see what you're saying. You're right. Merchants are, you know, these thieves who,
you know, steal stuff and sell it kind of like today. They're all used car salesmen.
It's rich people. It's like, look at this person trying to become a rich person like me when they
weren't born into it. Yeah. You're right. Having money made you awesome, but trying to, trying to
have money made you shit. Yeah. All right. We're weird. So I don't know how you would have successfully
got that to him. I guess if you could get past the like earning money part and just have to have
money part, then it's worth five years people hating you maybe. I mean, obviously a lot of people
thought it was worth it. Yeah. There were a bunch of people who got money and power. Fair enough.
All right. So I found this interesting comparison to the modern day. He points out that one of
the commenters, Ger, suggested teaching our communities decimal notation. If you speak decimal
notation, our culture standard representation numbers in the chronophone than the chronophone
output standard representation numbers used in Syracuse. But as you did note, place notation
is revolutionary because it makes it easier for ordinary people, not just trained accountants
to manipulate large numbers. Maybe maybe an equivalent new idea in our own era would be
Python, which makes it easier for novice pro for novices to program computers. Coming up with that
chronophone input suggests that maybe we should pay more attention in this era to Python, which I
was like, that is a new and non obvious conclusion that he just reached. Am I doing something wrong
by not knowing Python? I think that that's actually a pretty common sentiment now where they're
trying to like push every child in school, learn programming, that's become a new thing. I don't
know if our incentives are coming from the right place, because it's not like people are like,
Oh, these kids need to learn programming because that way we're going to elevate the human race.
I think a lot of those coming from we need to teach these kids Python so that like they will
have employment, which again, it's the economics thing. So it's not like I don't want to say that
having money is bad or that trying to gain social status or whatever is bad.
Unless you're a Python developer right now, which case your marketability is going to plummet
here soon when there's a bunch of high school graduates who can do entry level work. But I
mean, that's how initial literacy and numeracy came about too, right? It was economically useful
for people to know it. And eventually we were like, this is so useful, the whole human race
should have these skills. I feel like I'm missing something. But I don't, I don't think it's obvious,
at least I didn't until now, that everyone should know Python the same way I think everyone should
know cursive. No, cursive, that everyone should know how to write the decimal system. And yeah,
and know how to use numbers and how to read. I think with cursive was just that I think that
they're teaching kids a lot of stuff that's outdated and not very useful nowadays. Like
cursive. Luckily, they're not teaching cursive in a lot of places that much much
disagreeing of our grandparents. Yeah, no, I actually met somebody recently who like,
was like, huh, people don't even know how to do cursive anymore. Like, I don't know,
my kid or my grandkids or whatever doesn't even understand cursive. And she's laughing. And I'm
just like, uh, yeah, but she could probably fix your phone. Yeah, it's like, grandma, you just
gave half your half your life savings to Nigerian Prince. Yeah, when you forget how to log into
Facebook and you call in your grandkids and you can't write them a letter and cursive to ask for
their help. So tough shit. Yeah. But this is coming from somebody who tries to make a living
programming. Like it's not clear to me what the benefit is to the average person. Like, hold on.
If you could quickly automate simple tasks that lots of times people go through the more tedious way.
I mean, the whole point of it is that it's supposed to be non obvious, right? Like,
yeah, but like a thousand years ago, people would have been like,
why do my children need to know about decimal notation and how to manipulate numbers? It's
not a useful skill in their farming. Yes. Like if you knew basic scripting and you're doing
like similar things most days or something that'd be nice, but it's not clear to them. Most people
have the applicability to put that into their lives. I don't know about Python, but like basic
kind of computer language literacy, computer literacy, like just how to cut and paste and
all that stuff. Well, that sounds super valid. I'm an accountant. I don't do math every day.
I don't even do math every week, really. But I still think it's good to know how to do math for
the times when you do need it. That's what I'm struggling with. Because yeah, it's valuable
for me. Yeah, again, I don't do math that much either. Like it's just reading and writing. There's
some people that just never read a book after school. But the fact that people are literate as
opposed to not is just such like a force multiplier for people having the ability later on in life to
elevate themselves or to develop new interests or just communicate with people.
Just the ability to see information that is stored in the physical world is super handy. Like
yeah, I heard about a guy who was a long haul truck driver who couldn't read. And whenever
he like needed to get some places where he needed to read signs, he would call someone up and he's
like, Yeah, I'm kind of lost right now. Can you tell me is there like a landmark nearby or something?
And I mean, eventually some people cut on but didn't know how to read kind of a kind of a handicap
when so much information is stored in written form all around us. Yeah, that's weird to think
