I want to just print up all these pamphlets and leave it on everyone's dashboard,
in front of the kingdom hall, because they call the church's kingdom halls.
And I was so full of them, and everyone will see what a lie this is, and they will all be like,
how could you have lied to us about this? And I never actually did it. And now I realized it
would have looked at it and been like, and thrown it away, and not given it two thoughts.
Yeah, the answer I always got as a kid was like, well, that's where faith comes in.
And so Richard Dawkins puts it poignantly, is that faith is a license people give themselves
to believe something when reasons fail. And for those of us in the reality-based community,
we like reasons for beliefs. And so do religious people on almost everything. They just have
separate areas where they apply it indiscriminately. Well, the reason for belief is this is what my
community says they believe, and this is what I need to say in order to get the benefits of
being in this community. Or they really believe they have a soul or something. Some of them
actually believe that part. And not even that. Some people are emotional thinkers as opposed to
rational thinkers. There's, I don't know, like how inborn this is. But it does seem like there's
genuinely kind of two classes of people. And so I believe in this thing that makes me feel good,
and that makes me feel like I am going to live forever. And my family members are going to live
forever and be rewarded for all the suffering that we're having and telling somebody that like,
nah, it's actually really upsetting to them to the point where they will actually lean into
that cognitive dissonance. And like, no, actually, this makes me feel terrible. I'm going to have a
panic attack. You know what? Nope, rejecting that. I believe my belief. Yeah, or they lean the other
way and they just like, well, this makes me happy to believe this. And so these are probably the
same people that say you're not listening to me when you're clearly listening to them and just
not agreeing with them. Well, that's because also because English is like really a non specific
language. Yeah, but I mean, I've talked with people who literally thought I just needed to
listen to them better. And I'm like, no, I'm listening to you. I hear what you're saying.
They mean like, you're not being empathetic to me enough. Yeah, I know. No, yeah, it's infuriating.
It's like, no, I can repeat back what you said better than you put it. And I tell you why I
disagree. And they're like, no, you're not listening to me. I got something of value from
from all the four, the four horsemen back in the day. And I haven't revisited any of their stuff
lately. But what's fun is that they all came from different disciplines, and they brought
something new to the table, which is also, again, I got into these books in like late high school.
And it was like the first time that I saw that, oh, depending on like what your specialty is in
real life, you'll approach whatever issue this way. And it was always fun to see Dawkins bring
it back to evolution or something. And then it bring it back to kind of like philosophy and kind
of cognitive psychology. And then Harris would kind of lean more on just like philosophy and just
hard logic. And then Hitchens had it, where it was just, for him, it was just, you know, I think
Richard Dawkins said he seems to have read absolutely everything. He'd bring it back to
some reference of some book. And he would he had this fire where he could just be, he'd sound
enraged speaking of Stephen Fry. He was he was great to watch. Speaking of Stephen Fry, there was
a great intelligence squared debate with Stephen Fry and Hitch on one side and like two deacons.
Yeah, it was great. And you know, Hitch could get up there. He'd be like, you're going to tell me
that my friend, you know, pointing or touching Stephen Fry is an abomination who's going to burn
in hell because of what he is. Fuck you. I don't think he said fuck you, but the rest was a direct
quote. But but he he would have this this fire, but they could go out for a drink afterward. Like
he was never, I think, hating people. He just had this kind of energy to him. But speaking of it,
always making, you know, well, this makes me happy. Harris had this memorable, what parable, I guess,
of like, oh, yeah, every every weekend, my family and I go out in the backyard and dig for a diamond.
We we believe that there's one the size of a refrigerator back there somewhere.
Well, of course, there's no good reason to believe it, but it makes us happy. That's a good reason.
And it gives us hope. You know, if we find this thing, we'll be rich forever. So together as a
family. Exactly. And so it's like, he's mocking all like the same reasons people go to church or
whatever it is. But he was saying, like, this isn't a sufficient reason. Like, it makes me happy.
He doesn't make this. The thing is, like, if you don't care about, you know, analyzing your beliefs
that way, that and that maybe that's another reason rationalists spends a little time talking about
this, because we're not engaging with people like that for the most part. We're well past the point
where we think something makes me happy. Therefore, it's true. That's not even a thing that occurs
anymore for me. And I'm assuming it's the case for a lot of people. So but if you're if if you're
just not interested, you're not, I don't know, not to say that you're that unexamined, you're not
that introspective, but just that's not a part of your life that you introspect about. You'll be like,
look, it makes me happy. That's all I need. And if I think that makes it true, whatever,
hand wave. So I just assign so much value to the truth that it's kind of what you're talking about
with cognitive dissonance. Like if I, I can't lie, I'm like the worst person in the world at
like lying about something even a white lie, it just like kills me. And having like a belief that
I think is false, it just it's like an itch that I have to like go look on Wikipedia and figure
out what is true. But like some of those beliefs were actually really sad and hard to come to.
But a lot of people, you know, don't want to do that. And it was really rough. Like changing your
beliefs is really hard. I know any Ash can talk to that because you know, you did come from that
Jehovah's Witness background and converting to an atheist, I'm sure was like really hard.
Yes, yes, it was. Yeah, we can't hear your nodding.
Yeah, for me, I looked at it was fairly easy. My family, I think, you know, my dad, there were
different varieties of religious, both Christian, some kind, but like the fact that I don't know
tells you how strict my upbringing was. A part of their thing is like, of my upbringing anyways,
like my parents had three kids, and I think had the energy for two. And so like they, I think
they wanted to I like to joke that my brother and I are each half of an accident. Yeah, so between
the two of us and then my older sister, I think they just didn't have the energy like to actually
commit to stuff. So at some point, I think it was right when I was like an early teenager,
and I started asking all these hard questions. It was like sixth grade. I learned about how
the nice sixth grade version about Christopher Columbus came over and like Christianized the
Indians. And yeah, there's obviously a not PG version of that. Did all the ones before he came
go to hell? That was my question. And turns out that that's a really confusing question for
religious people. Because it says you have to you have to accept Jesus into your heart to go.
But if you didn't know, yeah, all the unbaptized babies, yeah, all the people like in every other
country that wasn't Christian throughout all of human history. Yeah, what about the proto humans?
Like what about like Neanderthals? Well, it depends on when when God leaned in and injected the soul.
Right? Oh, your parents don't your parents don't have souls, but you do is how this just how this
happened. You just don't tell the kid. Yeah, or they have it at that many depending on how strict
you are. Right? Yeah. Yeah. So that was my my, I think my first brush with like the challenge of
the institution. And so they're like, Oh, we're going to read the Bible, like we'll read a verse
at night. And it went on for like three days. So I think he doesn't take long to get into before
you get to really weird shit. Yeah, reading the Bible. Genesis one. Yeah, holy shit. Your parents
had no idea what they were doing, did they? My dad had to read it cover to cover before. I don't
think my mom had really wanted you to read it sequentially. They were going to read it to us.
I think that he whatever and I again, like I was trying to indoctrinate a kid, I would cut out
large chunks. That's what they do in church. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So to be clear, my memory of my
childhoods vague, but I'm pretty sure that's how we did it. Okay, again, three days from 20 years
literally just read it front to back to you. No, no, no, I think he read it front to back
himself at some point in his life. I'm told it's rough. There's like all the big gats. There's
like Ecclesiastes, which is just an old man complaining about things. Song of Solomon,
which is like completely unrelated. And just pages and pages describing how to build altars for
animal sacrifices. So much animal sacrifices, especially in the Old Testament. So much incest,
so much foreskins. There's whole talks of like raiding villages and coming back with piles of
foreskins like it reading the Bible cover to cover was how I officially became an atheist.
That's actually running joke to an atheist community. If you want somebody to be an atheist,
just have them read the whole Bible. I was trying to think of, I guess, the other horsemen
stuff, but I guess we're getting pretty far afield from the SSC post. So what did new atheism fail at
and why? It failed at keeping up with the left that basically runs the liberal side of our political
war. Because the after the political right invaded Iran, Iraq, was it? No, god damn,
where did we go into? We went into Iraq, right? Yeah, okay. And Afghanistan. And Afghanistan,
right. After the political right made it their mission to have wars in the Arab countries,
all of a sudden, being Muslim became like the new minority that has to be protected.
And the new atheists were like, no, we're still we're still not down with religion. Whereas before,
when all the religious people that got beat on were on the on the political right, they were like,
your southern rednecks, your hillbillies, your televangelists, all the people that the the liberal
that the political left hate anyway, they're like, yeah, these new atheists are cool, they're witty,
they're beating up on our enemies were working along for this ride. And then as soon as the
Muslim population became, you know, who the right was beating up on, it was sort of an enemy of my
enemy kind of thing. And the political left was like, no, no, the Muslims are protected minority
now. And you're not allowed to treat them the same way you treat southerners. And since you are
still saying that, then fuck off. And really, or the the atheist community was kind of like an
equal opportunity hater, where they're like, I'm not going to discriminate based on someone's
religion, whether or not I just like the religion, the religion is stupid, regardless. Screw your
dumb religion and your dumb, you know, things that you make women do. Yeah, there's um, that was
one of the hypotheses in the article. The other one was just that it like failed to gain cultural
relevance because people found them to be boring and redundant, especially in, you know, the
rationality community. It seemed like they weren't reaching their, what was it, political adversaries.
They were just kind of like preaching, you know, the same thing over and over again, saying like,
this obvious thing, and being really like, in your face about it, and everyone was like, oh god,
we know, shut up. I think they kind of won though, because like the newest generation,
almost everyone on tumblr and reddit is some flavor of not the religion their parents were,
even if they aren't necessarily atheists, they're at least like, oh, I'm spiritual, you know,
instead of, yeah, I don't know about tumblr, people are very spiritual on tumblr, not necessarily
Christian, right? That's not Christian. Yeah, they're, they're, you know, they're spiritual,
or they're into crystals or whatever, but, but they're no longer like the televangelist
moral majority people. I don't know if the Four Horsemen had to do with that. I think that was a
kind of cultural shift that was happening already. And I've definitely experienced a lot of the
attitude from family members of like, you don't believe in anything. Oh, I would rather you believe
in something as opposed to nothing, regardless of what it is. Right. No, I mean, I don't think that
they were obviously that's not what they were shooting for, and I don't think they were necessarily
directly responsible, but I think they were a contributing factor. It's kind of like Bostrom
and Newt Kowski writing about AI safety, like they weren't the only ones making these noises,
and they weren't the first, but they, they were large and charismatic and got a, got a large
audience. They were, they were a lot of shit for it too. Yeah. And I think, you know, they think
it's a similar thing with the new atheists that like, they weren't making their message wasn't
wholly original. You know, some of their arguments might have been like their flavor of original,
especially like Dennett's, excuse me, Dennett's book, Breaking the Spell sounds like it's like
breaking the spell of being religious. The spell is the taboo of talking about religion
scientifically and investigating it. And so his whole thing was like, we should just, this is
like a super important thing in the world, you know, 75% of people claim that religion is the
most important thing in their lives on the globe. We should be curious, like, where did this come
from? Where did these impulses come from? Why are we like this? What, what are the varieties of
religious, uh, interpretations, that sort of stuff? Yeah, I think Rick Warren called his,
has come about to a large extent. Yeah. Like I, I, I contest the, the thesis of that post. I don't
think that new atheism failed miserably. Me too. I think it achieved some of its goals and, you know,
not all of them. It might, a better title might be, why didn't it succeed gloriously? Because it
might not have done that, but I think failed miserably sounds like it tried and just caught on
fire and died. I don't think the word miserably was in there. I think it is. No, I'm forgetting
the thing that I was quoting. But in any case, the, Oh yeah, no, the word miserably is right there.
Yeah, there's that. And I think I've never had a hard finger on like the pulse of society and
their political leaning is very well, especially 15 years ago. But I'm pretty sure 15 years ago
it was more acceptable to say, as a politician, those are my private religious beliefs. And
that's why I'm voting this way. Fuck you. Minus the fuck you, whatever. Fuck you implied. But now
I think there's less of that. Now there's a lot more pushback, especially like from like,
liberal politicians saying you've got to back that up. You can't just say it's my private
conviction that I came to, you know, last night reading the Bible. And that's why I'm voting this
way. Otherwise, we're going to call you out. Is that my interpretation? They're wrong. It seems
like even politically, they still vote religiously, but they have to, they have to hand wave and make
up some science or like something. It's certainly much less, far less acceptable on the left. I
think it's probably less acceptable than it used to be on the right, but it's still got some
legitimacy on the right to say that. But I think people on the left call them out more now. Whereas
like it used to be a tacitly supported thing among everybody that, Oh, of course, your faith is your
faith. I respect that. Oh, you don't want gay people to be allowed to marry or live. Well, that's
your religion. That's fine. I understand. You know, I can't challenge you. I'm not sure very many
people went that far, even back in the day. Oh, that's good. I mean, yeah, I mean, death camps
I don't think death camps, but I also think like, well, if they get HIV, then that's their problem.
Right. Was a thing that happened. It was. But like marriage, for example, there's no,
there's no good secular argument against gay marriage. It used to be legitimate to say that,
you know, God said Adam and Eve. Right. And yeah, and now it's not. So that seems like a win. Yeah.
I do think that you're right. I think it probably has more to do with the fact that there were
equal opportunity haters. And when it became unfashionable to hate equally, then it was like,
oh, you guys are making, because the thing is, and that's the, that's sort of the downside,
and there's still sort of the carryover of that with like Sam Harris, especially, because he's
the only one I still like, if Dawkins had a podcast to listen to, but I'm not going to get on Twitter
to follow him. Good choice. Right. But you know, even now, Harris, if he, he doesn't talk about
religion all that much, it's sort of his springboard onto being popular. But now it's like,
I can't remember. He had one religious episode, maybe in the last year on his podcast. And that
was actually really fun. Maybe this is a couple years ago, it was with, I forget her name. She was
Fred Phelps' daughter. So that was kind of interesting. He was the Westboro Baptist Church
leader. And just what it was like growing up with him. And now she's not, now she's not religious
and that sort of stuff. For those unfamiliar with Westboro Baptist Church, were the God hates fags,
picketing funerals people? Yeah, they're, they were a drag. Yeah. I guess they still do do that.
We're going to continue to be a drag, but I think that they're actually like a group that is acceptable
for everyone to hate. Yeah, there's a joke about Kyle Kanane that you have like a crowd of like
homosexual protesters and the Hell's Angels saying fuck you guys. That's like, that's, that's quite
a villain, right? That's, that's a good, Fred Phelps is a good, that was actually, this was
mentioned methods of rationality, but it was also a favorite psychological study from the 60s.
Sheriff and Sheriff did the, well, long story short, the robbers cave experiment in the 1960s
or 50s, where you separate two groups of young boys into two, two groups to try and encourage
animosity. And all you have to do is separate them, but unite them with a common enemy. And
that enemy was Fred Phelps. I think you've cast him out and made a joke about this in one of his
posts that, oh, in fact, it was the same, it was the same one on the robbers cave experiment where
