like the world having a super villain would actually be like handy in the sense that it would
give us all somebody to unite against. And thus the plot of Watchmen. That's why I love Watchmen
so much. And Harris makes the same point. And I think the end of faith that barring an attack
from outer space, we don't have like something that humanity can rally against, right?
Global warming would be cool. That's exactly what I was going to say. It'd be cool if climate
change could be that thing, but it's not for some reason. Global warming doesn't have a face.
Yeah, you can't shoot at it. Yeah, we got to answer for Morpheus global warming. There's got to
be someone in that costume. Jay's blog post, 500 million, but not one more was really good at
that. No, it wasn't that one. It was enemies with faces or something. It was a very similar
post about how, yeah, as soon as you can anthropomorphize a disease, people are like,
what was it? If you told someone that they can make a deal with this demon that has been murdering
hundreds of humans throughout all of all of our history, and only recently has been brought under
control towards only killing a few humans a year, but you make a deal with him will let you infect
hundreds of thousands of people again, if we can spy on our political enemies, anyone who took that
deal would be labeled a monster. But the US did exactly that when they let CIA in through the
vaccinators, the vaccination program in Afghanistan. And now there's a lot of people in Afghanistan
and surrounding countries, which don't let the vaccine crew people volunteers come through and
vaccinate their kids because they use those to spy on their enemies. Slight digression. I do want
to recommend the book. I think it was on immunity, which was actually talking about what is the science
behind vaccinations and what is the history of vaccinations and why do people hate vaccinations.
And it's interesting because I read that thinking, okay, I know this I've heard this a million times,
but some of the history and some of the biases that people have against vaccination was actually
kind of news to me. One of them was colonization, where for like, you know, I have a hard time like,
oh, okay, like, Andrew Wakefield said this thing about autism, so I don't want to vaccinate my
babies and I'm going to buy like a smallpox lollipop on the internet and like, okay, I hate you.
But people that are like, yeah, this force of colonization came and destroyed my country and
then like was like doing all these terrible things to my people for so long now wants to
take my child and inject them with something mysterious. I don't trust that. And I'm like,
well, I have a hard time like hating you that you have a point. But no, this is a good thing
they're going to inject your kid with. It's going to be great. It's more sympathizable. It's still a
drag and it'd be nice if things hadn't shaken out historically to where it was so hard to
sell like, look, do you want your kid to die terribly like your uncle did? No, well, then
seriously, this is free. We'll hook you up. But it's at this point, it's like, yeah, I've heard
that before, you know, get the fuck out of here. And it's hard to hard to fight that.
Yeah, here, here, we're the saviors, we're going to come rescue you from your like tribal ways. And
it's like, yeah, that sounds familiar. Yeah, you like to give me some blankets too.
Early attempts at someone else also gave us small amounts of smallpox at one point.
We've heard this story. Yeah, where are we on this? Atheism rules, religion rules.
I've heard anything lined up that went a long time. That was great. That was nostalgic.
Yeah, the Slayster Codex article started out with quoting I think a baffler article, which like,
I'm not actually familiar with the baffler. Where that was the argument, though, that like,
the new atheists are boring and dumb. And that seemed to be like, kind of why a lot of them
went away. And there's all these like, kind of triumphant, like, Oh, remember those boring,
old new atheists. But it's coming from the blue tribe. And it's kind of interesting, because
it's like, well, yeah, but they did actually have this effect on society. And now we're able to
kind of like reap the better people and be like, yeah, but Muslims are a protected minority. And
we love them. I find that a little bit awkward, where, yeah, I don't know, somebody brought up,
I think I forget it was actually in the article itself or maybe in the comments, I think it was
the comments. No, it was in the article, Scott said this too. The one of hypothesis for what
might have happened is that kind of the split between the blue and the gray tribe kind of
happened. Didn't realize they were kind of read articles, Seminole or Scott Seminole post on the
gray tribe. This was the when I clicked it, it said, I can hate or I can tell everything except
the out group. Oh, is that where he coined it? Well, I think that's that that links to liberal,
but I mean, still are liberal, but no longer identify with the political left because of
all the crazy shit they do. And now are much more like the Silicon Valley, almost libertarian
type word of key issues. Gotcha. Kind of like the Sam Harris folks then too. Yes. Okay. I would
say he's pretty like, yeah, I think the difference is that I think Harris votes blue, whereas I
think maybe libertarian vote libertarian. So I mean, the thing is libertarians, at least the
old school libertarians always voted Republican, which tribe is people who are disaffected with
how shitty the Republicans are. Whereas great tribes, people who are disaffected by how shitty
the Democrats are. They're just the disaffected people at any point in time. Yeah, I was actually
reflecting on the one with the left. Please old man, Zuber, tell us about the problems.
The left doesn't mind. We we are fine attacking the shit out of ourselves. And, you know, we can
have somebody and you get that that mob big enough, then that person's out and you've got a smaller
group. And so we're way less cohesive. And I think this is a weakness of the Republican party.
Jesus Christ, where was this? It's amazing. It's like she gets murdered every day. It's a
Groundhog Day movie. But she's getting murdered every time. It's PG 13. And there's this scene
where she, again, it's irrelevant, I promise. Honest Trailer is a YouTube series that does
like four minute trailers of movies, but they're like satirical. And then at the end,
it'll do like starring and it like makes up people instead of the actual characters,
and then the murderer is trying to kill her. And it looks like they're kind of like rough
housing on the bed. And this guy leans in and he's like, Hey, and he closes the door. And then
it says like starring. This goes back to where on the right, it's much more common, I think for
no matter what, the world's like, Hey, you're in our group, you're fine, you're with us. Yeah. And
it's not a big deal. Being a member of the right than a member of the left, because I feel like
if I was a member of the left, I would constantly be having to watch my back for people trying to
stab me. Whereas if I was a member on the right, I would be like, I can rape someone on this that
comes with that sort of loyalty. Yeah. And it's it. I can see how it doesn't franchise some people
on the left to fall into this great tribe. Meta note, I'm noticing that the lines aren't like
right now I'm talking, it's not now it's back. Hello. Okay. I'm sure it'll be close. I bet when
you say it'll say it lost some files, and we probably didn't lose a lot. I'm not sure what you
could do to make it not do that. I think I'm going to buy a SSD drive, because this is still an
old school hard drive. And I think every now and then like something else tries to access memory,
Windows tries to update or some shit. And I just need, I just need a better piece of computing.
Put it on the podcast budget. Oh, yeah. Okay, that sounds like equipment that we can now afford.
That sounds like for the show. And so cool. All right, back off of animal liberation back
into rationality. We yeah, we're at nine o'clock. So we should probably move on to the
less wrong post unless we have more stuff to say. I feel like there's a lot more to say about this,
but maybe we should kind of keep expanding on it and like successive episodes on atheism or
animal liberation. Oh, you know, those are two good, good topics. Yeah, we can come back to it.
Sorry, this is sort of a meandery episode. I this kind of hits like not close to home like
in a bad way, but it's close to my heart. These were important figures in my development. Yeah.
And, you know, they, they had like a different approaches and different messages,
but they, they kind of united around the like, you know, reason first mentality. So I liked,
I liked all of them growing up. It was fun. Yeah, they were, they were, I don't want to say
proto-rationalists, but they were part of the budding of rationalism as well. Yeah, I think that
was a lot of why they became rejected, actually. Like Steven was kind of pointing this out earlier,
but their message was not just got a stupid how obvious is that it was, let's actually think about
what we're doing here. Like our cognitive biases, the fact that we're not like examining our own
beliefs or our own source documents. That's definitely, you know, the, the beginnings of
the rationalist movement is like, you know, why do we believe what we believe? That was actually,
I think that I heard that from one of the four horsemen before I heard it from anyone in the
rationality community. Like, what do we believe? And then how do, like, what do we know? How do
we know it? So they had like, you know, they had that kind of formative impact on a lot of people
who now are in the rationality community. I think a lot of people did come from the atheism community.
And some doubled back. I know that Harris, like, read the sequences, what, in the last couple,
or at least he read some of Yutkowski's stuff. I don't know if you've read all of it. I think he
may have. There's some rationality from AI to zombies. And so he's kind of come full circle,
which it's always fun to see like a big celebrity, you know, pitching, you know, rationality is not
that fringe, but it's not like, it's not like atheism where everybody knows what an atheist is.
So yeah, I like the more celebrity involved, the better. Well,
give or take. Yeah, not necessarily a good thing, but it couldn't, you know, well, it could hurt.
You get what I'm saying. Yes. Exposure is nice. Yeah. All right. So speaking of
the rationality from AI to zombies and sequences stuff, do we want to move on there?
Let's move on to our sequences. All right. Before we do real quick, the digression about
the animal liberation stuff, I was thinking, we just, it's totally unrelated to what we were talking
about. And it kind of like happened, it started out with a standing and do, well, I want to just
cut that and put it in the bonuses for patreons. I was going to suggest that because that actually
turned into kind of a cool discussion, but yeah, it's super unrelated. That's good. But this part
stays in as people know that there's patreon only content. Okay. If you want to hear it start off
kind of shady, because we're all walking around and stuff, we can sit down and talk about animal
rights and Peter Singer for 10, 12 minutes. That's out there on patreon. If you're a supporter of
the podcast. Excellent. Perfect. All right. Moving on to the less wrong sequences. Post one,
chronophone motivators. No, post one was Archimedes Chronophone. Damn it.
Post one. Archimedes Chronophone. No, you're good. All right. So what's what's a chronophone,
Inyash? This is confusing. I know what Chronos is. Chronos is the god of time. Yes. I know what a
phone is. Do you know what a chrono trigger is? I know what Archimedes is. It's a video game I
never played, but I owned for many years. You owned it, but didn't play it. Yeah, I bought it from
a friend and then I was like, Oh, such a good game. Should have played it. What is it? Video
Oh, you haven't heard a chrono trigger talking about. It is one of the most famous JRPG
games. Do you get to shoot a time gun? No, no, but you get to jump around through time and part
of the gameplay is like going back in time to change things. So then you can jump forward in
time and reap some of the benefits of that. Nice. Yeah. And it's it's it's got a whole lot of it's
a great storyline. It was good game mechanics. It was just one of the the height of the JRPG,
you know, phenomenon at that time. I'll point out that Ocarina of Time did the same thing.
It wasn't the point of the game. Yeah. But there's a larger aspect of that involved. Yeah.
That was a major game mechanic and also life is strange. And wow, here's another digression.
And I think I'm the one who brought it up. Now I feel bad. Let's go back to the Archimedes
Chromophone. Okay. Chronophone. No, I mentioned Chrono Trigger. I think that was me. It doesn't
matter. Anyway, Prince of Persia. Let's rewind time and keep trying. Now we're going on.
Archimedes was a smart dude back in the day. He was he was like one of the leading,
the most famous mathematician of the ancient world, I think, right?
Sounds right. Or one of them. There's like Agrius and all those people around running around at
that time. Right. The post Archimedes Chromophone asks us to imagine that Archimedes invented a
temporal telephone or chronophone for short, which lets you talk to him from us in the 21st
century to him in his century. And we can make suggestions to him. But the chronophone avoids
transmitting overly anachronistic information, doesn't want to screw things up too bad.
So it transmits cognitive strategies rather than words. So if you follow the policy of
check my brain's memory to see what my culture recommends as a wise form of political organization,
you don't say to Archimedes women should have the right to vote. What comes out of the chronophone
is the result of Archimedes following the same policy and looking up in his brain what his aura
lads as the wise form of political organization. So it'd be something like find a very wise and
just tyrant. The same dilemma applies to scientific issues. If you say the earth circles the sun,
it comes out of the chronophone as the sun circles the earth. It doesn't matter that our
civilization is right and their civilization is wrong. The chronophone takes no notice of facts,
only beliefs and cognitive strategies. You tried to transmit your belief about heavenly
mechanics. So it comes out as Archimedes' belief about heavenly mechanics. It's funny because
the next thing he says is exactly my thinking, which is kind of like, all right, I'll lay out
there's like really careful step of like old school philosophy. Yeah, and we'll daisy chain you there.
But yeah, why won't that work? He's very good thing that you try to do that though. Okay,
if you try to do that, what comes out on Archimedes end is a careful style of Plato like
philosophical analogies, which argue that wealthy male landowners should have special privileges.
You followed the cognitive policy of come up with a line of philosophical arguments intended
to persuade a neutral observer to my own arrow's point of view on political privilege. So it comes
out of the chronophone is what Archimedes would think up if he followed the same cognitive strategy.
And the point of this is to point out how hard it is to come up like with anything truly novel.
I think Eliezer says later on in the post, the really odd thing is that some point in time,
someone must have turned against slavery, gone from pro slavery to anti slavery,
even though they didn't start out wanting to persuade themselves against slavery.
We touched on the animal liberation thing. That was analogous to that with me.
I'm still, I don't know, it's hard to be like an animal rights activist in the 20%
with Peter running around doing it all the wrong ways. But the message of like, you know,
factory farms are a nightmare and we should be dealing less meat.
And animals do have some level of sentience or at least some animals.
Yeah. And that matters. Those are messages that are important, right? But those aren't
things I started out believing. Anyway, wanted to derail us for no reason.
That wasn't a drill. I was directly directly related.
All right, cool. Tangent or wait, no, hold on. What do you call a parallel tangent?
Right next to what we were talking about. What do you call this?
I think that was just on topic. Well done, Steven. Go Steven.
So it's such an unusual feeling for me. I felt like I was doing it wrong. Okay.
He points out humanity did not invent the scientific method by setting out to invent
the scientific method by looking for a garden path that would lead to the scientific method.
If you know your desired destination, i.e. the scientific method, you're already there.
So yeah, the basic point is that to get non obvious output, you need non obvious input.
If you say something that's considered obvious in your home culture, it comes out as something
that's considered obvious in his culture. And the question, the challenge at the end,
which I found I could not answer, although to be fair, I did not give it five minutes by the clock,
is what advice do you give our comedies? And how do you say it into the chronophone?
This is fun. I almost kind of want to take a five minute break to think of one because
I didn't think about it really that much yet. All right.
We could also all three of us just talk about it for five minutes. Does that work?
Yeah, that's fair. Okay. So the constraint is that I can't just tell him a fact
because he'll look at like a relevant fact that he has in his head. So I also can't share with
him like a moral conviction because he'll look at his similar maps moral conviction.
So I need to be more abstract than that. Yeah, cognitive strategy. So a strategy,
but like my strategy for like find the truth is the scientific method or something. His strategy
for find the truth is let's not say it's our comedies and someone dumber and say it's like
whatever stargaze or something, right? What do you call reading stars?
Oh, Plato's method for finding truth was literally contemplate what the perfect nature is. Yeah.
