to be able to recognize faces and stuff like that. There tends to be a spectrum among like
human abilities for these types of skills. Anyway, so if you do an FMRI for a place that
isn't like a doctor looking for stuff, you can sign a thing that says if they have an
incidental finding, which is like if they see a golf ball size tumor pressing on my
what, fusiform face area, and that's why I don't I'm bad at faces.
So how much brain damage do you got? Turns out, well, they didn't they so what they'll do if
you sign this thing, they'll send it off to a real doctor who specializes in that than that
doctor will call you and I never heard from anybody. So apparently I'm brain drain damage free.
Yeah, you're just naturally bad at braining. There's that. Yeah.
All right, I think that's about it. As far as I want to touch on like, you know, anytime that
any of us think of like, oh, I this is a rationality thing I did recently, I can bring that up. But
to answer that really long running question, I think the general thing is just to, well, I guess
there's an easy way to put it out that we'd already done that. It's just if you see a way to
apply any techniques that you can, even on sample problems that like I wonder about this or like
real life problems, those are, you know, the harder versions, because there's way more variables
than that than there are in any stories. But I don't know. The other thing is like, it's not hard,
you know, if you if you fail, usually no one dies. So can I push decision advisor one more time?
Go for it. Yeah, it's a guided path decision advisor. And we'll put a link in there. I made
a lot of decisions recently, just based off of this kind of multiple choice web based
questionnaire that actually kind of calibrates your confidence of how how likely do you think
these things will happen? How important is this to you? And it like will compare all your decisions
and come up with a this is what you like you actually feel about this. It's kind of cool
because you can put decisions in that you thought you felt really confidently about one way and
you comes out with the opposite. And you're like, Oh, wow. I did that too with trying to decide
whether I wanted to pursue a library masters or go to a coding boot camp or like I had a bunch
of other things. And it was just like, Hey, go to the boot camp. And I was like, really? You know
what, that makes so much sense that I looked back at all the like, Oh, yeah, like you could trace
the decision all the way back to the root and realize how much like valuable are these things to
you versus like, how hard is this thing going to be versus, you know, what do you think the outcome
is going to be worth? Oh, that's nice. So it actually shows you the decision tree that led to
where you're at rather than like, just accepting the answer like a buzzfeed which came with her
own character care. Yeah, no, it's it's a bit more definitely more complex than that. It's got
graphs. That sounds awesome. Alright, I've never never used this. I should definitely look into
that. Yeah, and the team is working on it is really cool. They keep coming out with all
different kinds of tools. I actually was in like a web chat with one of the developers giving them
like suggestions and feedback on some of the stuff. So they're really interested in like
hearing about Hey, what like cool brain tools do you want to see us make? So what funds this?
Did you pay for it? Or no, I didn't pay for it. I don't know. Angel investors still I guess, I guess.
Yeah, that's an interesting question that's worth looking into philanthropy. Yeah.
I'm surprised how many things are funded on nothing right now. Just like, hey,
it's got the word web in it. Here's money. It's kind of the way of the future, right?
Investors can throw money at like 40 things. And then if one of them actually hits the jackpot,
then they like yay. And then the other things got some money and then they didn't do well. And
it's like, Oh, whatever. It's nothing to that investor. I'd be such a non asshole shark tank
style investor if I had $50 million. Because what's $200,000? I mean, it's we do the math
is exactly whatever. But it's you say that but throw that $200,000 at bad bets long enough
and you don't have the 50 million anymore. No, but I could I could throw it at five
that I was reasonably confident in. And then I'm only Oh, no, $49 million. And then I could make
make some people's lives awesome. I could make a bunch of money. That'd be really cool. I also
like the show Shark Tank. Was I gonna say about the decision tree thing? Oh, a lot of like a lot
of stuff is free. You know, most podcasts, right? Especially most of the content that most podcasts
make. But I mean, most podcasts are basically like a gift to the listening community, right?
Right. But I mean, even most apps, I guess, maybe not most, but most apps on anybody's phone.
They're free with quotation marks. Exactly. Yeah, they've got ads in them. They've got ads. And
then they've got, you know, paid versions that are leveled up versions of whatever. But if they're
awesome enough, like Apollo for iOS, I'll throw him a buck every couple months, just because it's
awesome. I like to throw a few bucks at Pokemon Go every so often because it's I've gotten a lot
of like play hours out of this game and it's free. And it's like, I'll just buy some Pokeballs,
whatever. Like I kind of want to get back to this development team. I've been playing this game
longer than a lot of console games. You realize they're not hurting for money. Yeah. And you're
the first person I've ever heard who said that. No, but I like to, I don't care if somebody is
making a lot of money off of something or not. But it's like, you know, if I'm getting a lot of
value out of this thing, I'll give them some money. That's fair. That's nice. Yeah, I was playing
some free game that I think is just one developer and it's just some little kind of like, you know,
clan beat up thing. It's not class of clans. It's like little turn based game.
And, you know, you get the full game, but there's unlockable other tribes to play as. So I like
bought one of those just to like, Hey, this is fun. I spent 10 hours doing this. Here's a buck.
Pokemon Go I played for like the first year. The thing is when it launched, it was such garbage.
If they'd hold on to it for like six or months and actually like,
No, that's how you have to do it. It's not. You can like a lot of this. I've made web games.
That's fair. And maybe I'm being too harsh, but I just know that like a lot of the stuff was,
you know, it was still like inversion zero point something because it was still like
technically in beta for like a year. That's part of how you get your data on what people want and
like, you know, what the bugs are and so forth and so on. I mean, you can kind of do like a QA
team for a while, but no, that's fair. You make you make a compelling point that maybe I'm being
too harsh on them, but I did just buy what two bucks worth of stuff last month. And that's the
first one I've ever spent on it. So yeah, I mean, I'm not saying I've like, thrown a lot of money
at them. I'm saying every so often I will throw them a few bucks, which again is partially just
because I have made mobile games. I've also waitressed. So like when I go out to a restaurant,
I will give people like a 20 to 25% tip because I'm like, yeah, I've been there, buddy.
I basically do not play free games because they're always like trying to suck money out of you with
these. It's so annoying to me that it's the game is a vehicle for trying to sell you things as opposed
to being an actual game. Like I would like to pay you money for your game. Please give me an actual
game. And even even AAA games are doing that shit now. Yeah. Like the first game I got hosed on
really hard was Destiny a couple of years ago. And that game, you know, came out campaign was
like 13 hours to beat it in two days. That's pretty bummed. And then the multiplayer is just
nonstop grind. And then they did like raids where you could farm for like better gear. So you could
level up a little bit and fight more like stronger other real people. And then they had, I think
60 bucks worth of DLCs for that game. And then I think another $30 like expansion that wasn't
included. This game ended up being like 150 bucks. And then games like God of War, there's not even
DLC for God of War. And that game was outstanding. It's interesting that yeah, a lot of them, I don't
know, like free games, they're also like never really worth the fun. Like I play Clash of Clans
and Pokemon Go and a couple like word games. Those are fine because whatever. And I look at the ad
and I click the X. Those aren't a big deal. But yeah, Clash of Clans has this, it's that Farmville
mechanic from like early Facebook, where you've only got a certain number of builders and something
takes X hours to build. And then eventually X weeks. And so you can buy, you can spend real
money to buy another builder. And then you can buy more gems to rush your builds. And it's just like
Yeah. So the reason I quit the game design industry was because over a period of six years, I watched
the industry turn into turned from let's make a cool game with good art that when good mechanics
that people will enjoy to let's make people addicted to this game kind of monetize this kind
of slot machine mentality and then just like release micro transactions. And unfortunately,
that business model works. It does. And it's the only way to make money because if you have a if
you build this awesome game and be like, Hey, it's four bucks. Is that too much to ask? Everyone says
fuck you. That's way too much to ask. There was actually one pirate stuff too. Can you pirate
stuff on phones easily? Well, I like the independent game community scene where I mean, it's the games
aren't necessarily as high quality in terms of like graphics and other things. But it's like
just a guy or a team of a few people working on the game. And, you know, they get the money from it.
And it actually feels like a real game again. Undertale was just one guy. And that was amazing.
There's some success stories, but usually the people that make these indie games, it's a labor
of love, and they don't make any money off it. And sometimes it ruins their lives. So like,
I like to say like, I also like the indie game community. But like, I think that the people
who do it are heroes. Basically, you have to do it as a labor of love and expect you're never
going to get anything out of it. That's basically everything nowadays. If you weren't working for
the man, it's like, you know, you kind of do it because you love it. And you hope maybe someday
someone will pay some attention or give you some money. The way I look at it, like I get a lot
of things for free off the internet to like podcasts and stuff, right? But I don't the what
and fan fiction, right? Lots of things. But I feel like since I'm helping to put something back
into the pot with the podcasts I do, that it kind of evens out, right? So if everyone is does some
work to to add to the pool, then it's not it's not I don't consider them like morally bad for
put drawing from it as well. Creative fields are a mess right now. Oh, God, that's an understatement.
Yeah, I hate to give any credit to the church. But like, you used to be able to get a bunch of
money thrown at you from wealthy donors who wanted you to like, you know, make icons, religious
iconography or whatever, or like portraits of my wealthy family. And then you had a career in the
arts and now like we have Patreon, which is kind of a poor substitute. And so you can go into the
arts and you can other kind of just do marketing. I'm not sure if it's a poor substitute. I mean,
having a patron back in the day wasn't that great a thing either, because I mean, sure, it was great
that you got to live and get paid money for doing your art. But you had a market of one. And like,
if he was like, I want all the art to be big tidied ladies with blonde hair, that was your job.
Or, you know, draw me the the Madonna carrying Jesus's body over and over again, then at least
with Patreon, you have a little bit more freedom. I guess so. Just a little bit of give and take
there where like, I feel like if you apprenticed with an artist back in the day, kind of like if
you apprenticed with any crafts person, like it was more or less guaranteed, you would have work.
Whereas nowadays, you can kind of make for YouTube videos forever, or you could like make
fan art and fan fiction. And it's like, a very small number of people actually make it in the
industry, or make enough money off of Patreon and coffee to be able to support themselves. You
can't really support yourself in the arts unless you again work for the man, like you say, or
or you hit it big, really lucky. I wanted the lucky people. That's why I'm looking forward to UBI,
because I think that people get a lot of value out of the stuff people make for free. And I would
love to see those people be able to make a basic income and keep making the cool, free stuff.
There's so many, like we were talking about earlier, fanfic artists and fan, or fan artists
and fan fiction writers who create like awesome content for two or three years and then disappear.
Well, I think Wild Bo, the author of Worm and All the Pear Humans and Pact and Twig, he just got
in the last couple of years, like to a point where he had sustainable income.
Yeah, I think he was working as a handyman, doing something by train, writing his books on the train.
He's still publishing two chapters a week. And he's so prolific and his work is such high quality.
It really is. It's outstanding. And it's not like he's making a lot of money. He's making like
subsistence. Like you said, maybe he's making more now. I really hope he is. I hope he's making
a bit more. I think he's almost at the median American income right now. So a decent amount.
And he lives in the boonies in Canada, so he's probably doing great. But we're doing good.
Yeah. I don't know how much money he needs. He seems like he just likes to write.
It seems like he likes and like needs to not just to live but to...
I think he explicitly said that. Like, I need to write. I was in college and I realized I just need to
write. That makes sense. I can't do anything else. It's like, man, I wish I felt that way about something.
So I got a fun segue speaking of the church and how having Patreon supporters is better
than having a patron. We can see how many Patreon supporters we lose by diving into tonight's topic.
Oh, okay. Yeah. If you guys are ready to move on. I don't think we'd lose any from this topic.
I don't think so either, but I was fine. Okay. Like, our patrons are pretty much on
board with this as far as I can tell. Atheism. Yeah. It's the best. Well, all right. So...
It was the best. Still the best. All right. This is interesting. We're already confused and
disagreeing, I think. No, I'm talking about the... Go ahead. No, you're good. So I think in general,
this topic, it's still a little coverage in the rationality community because like nobody cares.
I think we've touched on that. It was so obvious, you know. Well, and that's what they all say.
And now we have rationalist Catholics and rationalist Mormons and stuff.
Do we have popular ones? I don't know about now. I think they've been around.
Oh, well... I mean, yeah. By now, I mean, yeah. Not like recently, but...
I've never heard of them, but I'm sure... I mean, just like we've always had religious scientists,
you know, it's like you have somebody who believes the earth is 10,000 years old and then
puts on a lab coat and goes to work on Monday morning and does publishable science. It's hard
to say that they have a scientific orientation in their head on how to approach real problems,
right? So anyway, I guess I wanted to mention why nobody talked about atheism and rationality
for the most part. Maybe they do now. Most of my community following is mostly the sequences
and start codex posts. I don't do a lot of the current forms and that sort of stuff. So maybe
there's more discussion than I'm aware of, but my impression was just that this was a problem that
was like uninteresting and easy. And so it's like we don't get a lot of traction just rehearsing how
cool we are for solving this. I mean, that was basically the sentiment for a long time.
And then we got a not like a huge amount or anything, but a more than zero amount of really
dedicated rationalists that were also religious. And then it became something people talk about
every now and then. Is it just like the scientists where they like pretend it's scientific or they
just don't talk about it? They say it's separate from science or do you get like rationalists who
say, no, it's really rational. God doesn't want you to masturbate. What do they say? Like, no, it's
I do rationality Monday through Friday to five. And then I do religion for the rest of my
I've seen that least one. I don't know if you would call it an apologetic or what, but like a
strong I don't consider the argument strong personally, but the person obviously does
consider it a strong argument for why rationalism and their religion is compatible.
I'd be interested if you dig it up. I have it remembered. I wanted to do an episode on it
sometime soon. Oh, nice. Yeah. I mean, not right now because now we're on something else. But
no, that's not interesting. I would dive into it. Yeah, the vague introduction to that. I wanted
to call it cyber Christianity. Yeah, I specifically wanted to bring up the Slate Star Codex article,
which was how did new atheism fail so miserably? Before we dive into that, I had one like quick
thing. So atheism as like what it is, I've always had like kind of two definitions.
There's like the strong version of like, I don't or I believe God doesn't exist. And then there's
like the weak version of like, I don't believe God exists. Two very similar sounding statements,
but one is like a positive assertion. One is like a lack of like being convinced. I think
it's fair to say like, from my own mind, I see them both as technically true, like to the extent
that like rationalists understand what it means to say, I believe something. Right. That is to say,
I sign a very low probability to it and I would bet against it, like I'm currently betting against
it with my mortal soul. I mean, I'm starting for Chronix. If I have one, it's going to go in the
tank with me, I hope. So like, it's the kind of thing that if I don't know, I to somebody,
I've had conversations, it's been a long time since I've had like a really just like debate
with somebody like, I don't know, at least over five years, probably in real life. Like,
