Oh, but this is also a story about a man from Mars.
Uh, like a human that had been, what was it?
Raised by Martians.
He was raised by Martians.
I forget how he got to Mars.
Um, I think like there was a group that went up there and they all
somehow died of an accident or something.
So for him, he was a kid and the Martians took him in.
It's been a long time.
It, yeah, but like, I don't know.
I just find it funny that the culture though is just, like they didn't
really anticipate cultural change that much at all.
And you see that a lot when you see a sci-fi book, like read sci-fi books
or watch sci-fi movies that were written a while ago where they will
often extrapolate flying cars.
But the culture is still, like people are still like wearing hats.
Well, cause sci-fi is always written for their hats off indoors.
And yeah, sci-fi is always written for the current audience to help help
them think about the future.
So we'll just change a few things.
So bad at designing aliens too.
Like I, I get so annoyed at terribly designed aliens and movies.
But they didn't have much money back then.
No, it's not even the like, you don't have to, like the culture of an
alien species can be like enough to offset the fact that you've got
like a dude in a suit.
I've actually been refreshed on that a bit recently.
Uh, my own podcast, We Encultured Swine.
No, we decided to go back to uncultured swine since there was no
risk of confusing it with the other uncultured swine, but, um, it's
covering the first of E and M banks as aliens that I really like the design of.
There's no analogy whatsoever to human morphology.
They're kind of like octoblimps.
Um, the culture is, no, their culture, because when I just said the culture
that would confuse the series, uh, their culture is just this continuous
fest of testosterone poisoning, like it would be, it would not do toxicity
justice to call it toxic masculinity.
This is like dimethylmercury masculinity.
It'll dissolve through a latex glove in the inside.
Uh, but there, you can sort of see some bear parallels to a human culture,
but they're alien, they're comprehensible, but alien enough that
you never confuse them with people.
They're not as early as it refers to badly designed aliens elsewhere,
humans in funny suits.
Yeah.
What was that movie with, um, the big squid aliens that communicated
by squirting ink in circles?
Arrival.
Arrival.
Those were good.
Like some people are getting better at this and that makes me happy.
But yeah, then that you, for every arrival, there's still like three or
four movies where it's just a human with face putty or it's a big bug.
Yeah.
Arthur C.
Clark's drama series had some really cool aliens that the humans
dove octose fighters whose main, like, uh, individual to individual
communication, uh, involves this bioluminescent patch that can flash
different colors, kind of like actual cuttlefish.
Yeah.
I mean, like if more people just drew inspiration from things that
actually exist, like mantis shrimp, like there's so many weird things
that do actually exist that would freak people out.
If you made like just a bigger version of that, that has spaceships.
The mantis shrimp has the strongest punch of anything on the planet.
It has to use its own skeleton as the, as the energy storage because muscle
can't contract fast enough to deliver that punch.
So like it uses muscle to stretch its own exoskeleton and then it sort of
hooks it in place and the punch occurs when it releases the hook and the whole
plate of exoskeleton springs back to its normal size.
It's insane.
They are beautiful and they are made of rage and their eyes.
They can see all the colors.
They can see all the colors.
Anyway, um, like some hundreds more, uh, kinds of receptors than we have.
They're terrible.
How many more?
Like they can see 12 different wavelengths and they have six distinct
images formed by their eyes.
So their depth perception is preposterous.
Nice.
They need this so they can like find things to punch.
Yeah.
They're, they're, they're punch is it, it lands.
No, they're more like one punch.
They're, they're punch lands in a really specific area relative to their
body every time.
So they need an extremely precise sense of their own location.
I just want to get one as a pet and then like name it Saitama and put a
little one punch man, but name it.
Can't you?
But like I'll see keeping one as a pet means you have to have like bullet
proof glass tank, get a, get a polycarbonate aquarium.
If you can figure that out, they will effortlessly smash glass.
I think the ones that have a little tiny bit of plasma when the, uh, thing,
that's, well, them and pistol shrimp both do that.
Pistol shrimp.
That's what I was saying.
Yeah.
The, the acceleration is such that they actually create a vacuum in the wake of
the earth at the, like wavefront water.
The universe gets out of the way and the vacuum, as it collapses, actually
generates a tiny infrared pulse that you can see with a camera.
With an infrared camera.
This is why I don't think like mankind was created in God's image.
Cause why, you know, there's, there's a whole way of shit that we can't punch
ultraviolet.
God gave like the coolest abilities to like shrimp and it's in octopi.
And I don't know if they gave us the ability to take over the world and
possibly fix a aging.
So I think that's a pretty good one.
That, that is a good one.
But then there's also jellyfish aging.
Yeah.
Well, they can fix it.
They just never fell into that age trap.
Can they make computers?
Right.
Yeah.
Why do they need computers?
They're more where, how else would you get porn?
I don't know.
Do they even have fingers to jerk off with?
I'm sure.
Okay.
So obviously we're severe here.
Like dolphin communication does appear to have like some, a lot of elements of
actual language and given that it can be transmitted over a lot of miles.
And they, and they're like almost human level smart.
They probably have something like an oral tradition.
So there probably is a dolphin analog to the song of Solomon or some other
erotic fiction.
Nice.
Buried in the porpoise corpus.
How long have you been waiting to drop that?
I didn't.
That's like 50 years old and it came out of the Illuminatus trilogy.
Oh, nice.
Cool.
We're so off topic, but it's, it's like really enjoyable.
As long as we're talking about that though, that example I said I would get to.
Um, people don't just underestimate like technology directly impacting their
lives.
They, I think just because of how unintuitive the scientific process is,
people don't realize how bad the precedent is.
Even when, when examples are pointed out for saying, well, science will never
discover this, uh, in like 2008, 2009, when I was totally an internet atheist
stereotype, uh, this one Catholic person that I argued with was very sure that
aliens didn't exist because for all of our looking, we haven't found any other
star with planets and like at that exact moment in time, people were developing
the techniques that we've now used to map the locations and estimate the masses
of, we're probably into five digits worth of exoplanets now.
They were also wrong in 2008.
We had been finding planets, I think since the nineties.
It may be the two, maybe the early 2000s.
Um, but it was, it was emerging.
And back then it was in the, at least low hundreds.
My numbers might be a little off, but I know we had exoplanets pre 2010.
That's possible.
I guess part of it is the techniques we had at the time were completely
inadequate to identify any in earth like exoplanets.
Right.
Yeah.
That's fair.
We, we were able to detect the, like the wiggle of a sun that you would see by
indicative of having a nearby non-sun.
Like a Jupiter sized thing.
Right.
Yeah.
Apparently the first exoplanet found was one of those big gas, gas giants in 1992.
Yeah.
I knew that because it was brought up in the like re-release of Carl Ziggins
cosmos.
I should have just made it sound like I was smart, but no, I saw it on TV.
Uh, this was one way to get smart.
Some of the updates from the original release of cosmos.
And then when they're like, you know, the preamble to the, the one that you can
find now online, um, it used to be on Netflix.
Uh, I think it was maybe just Andrea.
I think for some reason I'm saying and talking about it too.
I can't remember, but, um, like in the original cosmos, dinosaurs being wiped
out via asteroid was one leading hypothesis or like one contending hypothesis.
Maybe like this wasn't, you know, like you mentioned 2008, you know what
else happened in 2008 that seems like forever ago.
Like we can't imagine without it.
The mortgage crisis, the release of the iPhone.
Oh, doesn't it feel like they've been around for like our whole lives?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I remember, um, being in kindergarten, we were talking about computers and they
asked, um, like who, how many of you have computers in your houses?
The teacher is sort of proselytizing about technology, which was great.
And then they did an exercise where they had blue and red blocks and you had to
put like your red or blue block on a stack.
If you had a computer versus not, and when was the one that tipped the scale?
Cause it was about 50, 50, but my house did not have a computer.
And then the teacher's like, I predict that I forget.
I wish I could remember what like timescale her prediction was, but like,
she was like, definitely someday everyone's house is going to have a computer.
Definitely someday everyone's pocket will have a computer.
