reading about.
And this is so, this is so common among this group and so specific to this group that there's
really no other good name to give it.
Yeah, I think it was the, like, WebMD syndrome, too.
I know my mom's doctor has said that there's nothing more dangerous than a patient with
an internet connection.
That's a good shorthand.
Yeah, I think, for some reason, I have the number six in my head is shark attacks, although
it has to vary more than one every year, but anyway, that's a good average.
I think the availability heuristic, like, I can't remember if it's another Yudkowsky
post or somewhere else, but, like, the sell of earthquake insurance goes up right after
an earthquake.
Yeah, that was in this, except they were talking about flood insurance.
Okay, yeah.
And in this post, they might have talked about earthquakes.
I think specifically of earthquakes, because it makes, like, with a flood, I don't really
know how often, like, if one flood influences the next flood, but one earthquake does influence
the next earthquake, in which, like, when the tectonic plates are agitated and settling
and that's what causes the earthquake, it tends to, like, not happen again for a while.
So right after an earthquake is when you shouldn't be buying earthquake insurance.
It should be like, it's been like five years since our last earthquake.
I should probably buy some of that nice, cheap earthquake insurance.
Yeah, well, this one with the floods, they had this sort of interesting take on it where
when dams and levees are built, they reduce the frequency of floods and create a false
sense of security, leading to reduced precautions, but, like, ironically, well, building dams
decreases the frequency of the floods.
If it floods, the damage per flood afterward is so much greater that average yearly damage
increases, because all that water that's been held back, I guess, I'm just picturing
the scene from a brother where the dam breaks and then there's just houses floating by with
people sitting on top of their, like, roofs of their houses and sort of still talking
about the same bullshit, the husband fighting with his wife while, like, a cow flits by.
That was a fun movie.
Such a good movie.
Yeah.
At the risk of annoying west with evo-psych, Eliezer says that selective reporting is one
major source of availability bias in the ancestral environment.
Much of what you knew, you experienced yourself or you heard it directly from a fellow tribe
member who had seen it.
There's no reason to believe that, Inyash.
That's complete conjecture.
So if you heard of something, it was likely that it happened recently and to someone
in a very small sphere of your circle.
No way.
I mean, you might have read it in a book or watched it in a movie in the ancestral environment.
There's no way to prove that you've heard about it from your tribe's people or experienced
it yourself.
That first-hand thing is important, like when you're talking about a population that lives
in tribes of 150 or scattered over a wide area, there's only so far you can get from
representative human experience and you have, as he says, direct access to even if you're
an outlier, you're going to know a lot of people whose experiences are much more representative.
So there's only so far astray that you can be led by this sort of thinking until you've
got a 10-digit human population scattered over the entire planet in so many different
environments, none of which we evolved for.
And in which all of them can communicate with everyone else instantly so that the most outrageous
thing is shots.
I should keep this for the Mindkiller podcast because it's kind of Mindkilly.
If you want one less Mindkilly, XKCD did a comic about how, because tweets travel at
a large fraction of the speed of light, a few hundred kilometers from the epicenter
of an earthquake, the tweets arrive before the actual earthquake does.
Oh nice.
That's cool.
Yeah.
That's like...
If you heard something extremely outrageous in the ancestral environment, you probably
knew who did it and you could have some effect on it happening again, whereas nowadays if
one person out of five billion does something crazy and stupid, you feel the same way when
you hear about it, like, how could this happen?
We must do something, but no, no, you don't have to do anything.
I often try not to comment on things if I don't personally, you know, know someone who
has experienced it.
Yeah.
About ancestral environments, one of our major benefits as a species is that we keep our
elderly alive and around because they're able to remember past events like they did
have the ability to actually see things happen and that gave them better predictive power.
I remember this thing about elephants, too, where they did a natural experiment where
they were studying two different groups of elephants and in one group of elephants, the
elders had died off of disease or something and the other, the elders were still alive
and there was a series of droughts and the elephants that had the elders, the elders
had remembered where the reserves of water were when droughts had happened to them in
the past, but the other elephants were, you know, just like the parents and the kids,
they didn't have those experiences, so they were much more likely to die off of thirst.
Yeah, I remember reading about that.
Yeah, I feel like that might have come up in some rationalist context or something because
the odds of that are increasing because I also remember that anecdote or that story.
Maybe somebody is, it sounds like something that's probably in Slate Strike Code X, actually.
He has an example in here which at the time was not political, but times have changed,
so now it is somewhat political, I guess.
He says, in real life, you're unlikely to ever meet Bill Gates, but thanks to selective
reporting by the media, you may be tempted to compare your life success to his and suffer
hedonic penalties accordingly.
The objective frequency of Bill Gates is 0.00000015, but you
hear about him much more often, and I, you know.
How is that political?
Well, I, lots of times, are you, if you want to make it political, you can just use Elon
Musk instead.
Yeah, I was going to say, a lot of people are like, why don't we take all the rich people
money and redistribute it?
And like, that makes sense in a tribe of a few hundred people.
When you have one person who's super rich, you're like, he's being an ass.
We're all contributing to this tribe functioning.
How does he have so much?
He could share it with us.
Whereas in this case, he's not being an ass.
And that money split over 300 million people is like $20 or something.
It's not a lot of money.
Well, and I guess my thing is, like, yeah, Elon Musk is maybe, I mean, even he's
doing cool shit, I would pick the Koch brothers or some, some asshole group.
Like, you know, Elon Musk is going to get us to fucking Mars.
Bill Gates is going to cure malaria.
So like, I, those, those to me are the, like the prime examples of like how to be,
you know, an ethically rich person.
I'm not sure what awesome project Jeff Bezos is working on.
Maybe he's a better example.
Hi, isn't he working on like Seastead and yours at someone else?
No, that sounds cool.
I think just yesterday saw a meme about Batman where someone pointed out that
instead of giving his money to the poor to help them out and reduce crime, he
puts on a mask and goes to fight criminals in the streets.
And the reply was he has 10 to 11 billion dollars and pointing a source to
like DC comics, right?
And dividing that by the population of Gotham means that he can give everyone
in the city $75 a month for one year and then he's flat broke.
And that's, you know, assuming he sells all his assets.
I'm like, yeah, see, that's, it's just not that much money divided up by the,
you know, what he could do is sell the patent to his self-driving cars and save
33,000 deaths in just America every year.
Does he have self-driving cars?
He did in the movies.
The Batmobile self-driving.
He has all kinds of like future tech things that don't really make any sense.
I think Batman is a really terrible example of that though, because when,
like that criticism implies that that's the only thing that Bruce Wayne is doing
with absurd amounts of money, as if he's not also doing like a lot of stuff
that sounds very effective, altruistic throughout Gotham.
Like his Batman thing is kind of an effort to trim the other tail of the
distribution.
And I'm not sure what the marginal, the value of the marginal dollar of
Bruce Wayne charity actually is, but he's spending a lot of them.
And, you know, he also needs a hobby to stay sane.
And if that is beating up bad guys, as long as it lets them give more money
to charity, so be it.
Just like Tony Stark.
I don't, I'm not in favor of any argument about how much good you're required
to do that says that once you win at the point where you start making
yourself miserable, you're still obligated to do more good.
Right.
Anyways, getting off of superheroes and villains and such.
On to why is the future so absurd?
Lack of Iron Man and lack of Iron Man and Batman.
When people look at historical changes and think I could have predicted X or
you could have predicted X.
If you looked at factors one, two and three, then they forget that people did
not in fact predict X perhaps because they were distracted by factors four
through 117.
I think this is much less relevant nowadays because we have all recently
lived through nobody thought that Trump could possibly win.
And yet he did.
And so I put a 40% on him.
Okay.
I, you know, I, that was my big moment of everything that I know is up in the air
and the world is in chaos.
And at that point, I really had a good sense of the, you know, future is absurd
kind of thing where a lot can change because I just didn't see all these factors
that I don't know.
For me, it was COVID becoming a problem after swine flu and bird flu and Ebola
all didn't really turn into things.
Oh, we were so over due for a pandemic, though.
But like we've had things that should have been pandemics, except that they
were handled properly.
I just had not updated.
I did not realize when the political situation changed how much that would
alter the way that diseases were responded to.
And I certainly would never have anticipated that denying the existence
of the disease would become a matter of tribal identity.
So Chinese house.
Yeah, that was weird.
Um, we live in weird times.
Our intuitions about the future linear, we expect around as much change
as occurred in the past.
But technological change feeds on itself and therefore has a positive
second derivative.
We should expect more technological change in the future than we've seen
in the past.
And in so far as technology drives cultural change, we should expect
more cultural change too.
I do think that that's funny.
Um, I'm reading Stranger in a Strange Land currently.
And I was written in, I think the sixties and, uh, telephones were like
the big deal invention that they thought we're going to have in the future.
Like, uh, in the 1960s, it was, uh, they still weren't in every house then.
But it was like a type of telephone that I think also had like a video
screen or something.
So basically like Skype was like what, I don't know.
And there's this one, like I can't, I kind of classic character who hates phones.
Everybody else is like totally like all about phones, but he's just like, I
hate the thing.
I'm throwing out the window.
He's like, you know what?
Sometimes I don't even answer my phone.
And I was just like, yeah, me nailed the future, man.
