If you're dedicated, any paper can be toilet paper, but I don't think that's what
the, what the searcher was inquiring about and you shouldn't flush
non-toilet paper, paper down.
Oh my God.
No, don't do it.
Um, I had my previous house, I had a bunch of housemates who apparently
had been flushing things like paper towels and tampons and, uh, it was really
not fun when we had to like cut the pipes open and then like months of horrible
food, grease and tampons sound particularly awful.
Like those things expand so much.
I've heard of them being used like for bullet wounds, they're great for bullet
wounds, actually.
Like they're packaged sterile.
So that actually seems like an awesome idea.
Uh, if you are worried about being prepared for the long tail of bad things
that can happen, you probably should include a box of tampons for that reason.
Yeah.
Like clout powder tampons, you know, it's one of those things like, I mean, like
toilet paper didn't make my list of top 10 necessities because I always use my
hand and wash it if it comes to that.
Right.
Like, and that's why it blew my mind that this is what the shelves were
out of, but there was, there was plenty of canned food.
Right.
And I'm like, okay, well, I'm going to let them on canned food.
You know, when it comes down to it, yeah, you could use your hand.
You could use a paper towel or excuse me, just a rag and wash the rag.
Like I've got a detachable shower head.
Like, you know, like, I guess what I'm getting at is I do enjoy having toilet
paper as a luxury, but if I had my list of things I need to have at home for a
month, like that doesn't make the top 10, I think that in the same vein as I
think it's cool that like, or it's not cool that like schools are phasing out
home, I think it's pretty important that kids learn how to cook meals and like
repair basic things around the house.
One of them was writing a check.
I don't know how relevant that is anymore, but like basic finance stuff, but
like survivalist stuff should also be taught in school.
Just like, first of all, just in case, you know, you do end up lost in the woods.
I only recently found out that it is not the optimal way to cook to just put it
on the highest heat setting and hurry through the cooking process.
Yeah, sometimes you can cook part of the meat and not all the way through the
meat and then you can make your meat very dry that way.
But like, it was a better lesson if you do that with bacon, you're doing
bacon wrong and you'll never get it properly crispy.
The other thing is also really quickly before we get off the top entirely, I
wanted to interject those things that are, say they're flushable on them, the
flushable wipes, not at all flushable.
It's a complete lie.
There should be a class action lawsuit against them.
Don't know why there hasn't been.
You cannot flush those things.
Don't do it.
Yeah, agreed.
I mean, you, it's physically possible, but it'll end up having the same effects.
They will not buy it.
There was a thought.
Oh yeah.
Uh, the other reason that it would be cool if kids were learning basic survival
skills is that it gives you an appreciation for the shit you have.
Like if you ever tried to build a fire, where did I read this?
I forget where this came from, but somebody said, okay, go, go outside and build a
fire.
Like if people think that it's easy to build a fire, you know, like, or that the
discovery of how to build fire wasn't that big of a deal.
Like it was like literally go outside, try to make a fire.
You won't be able to, you, it, it's really difficult.
And the fact that, you know, you can turn on your stove top and then there's
flame or flick a lighter, uh, or, you know, then, um, maybe go try to like hunt
something and butcher it.
That's still something I want to do, um, since I'm, since I'm a meat eater, uh,
which I would really like to eventually convert to veganism, but I just have my
three week supply of boxed calories.
I do not plan to ever butcher and kill something.
Well, I feel like it's important to really face like emotionally that what
it's like, cause it's hard to, I don't know.
I don't want to watch those years of slaughter house.
I understand this, this, this line of thinking entirely though, there are a
lot of people, like I've never understood people who think of hunting as cruel,
but also casually eat meat, right?
Who seem to think of the meat of like a hamburger patty as something that as
just a particularly messy fruit that's picked off a tree and has to ship to
you, uh, in ice.
Yeah.
There's people that are even like, you know, when they get the chicken breasts
that are already cut and sterilized and everything from the grocery store.
I remember when my sister was young, she, if she ever found a piece of fat or,
uh, God forbid, a vein, she would like not be able to eat the rest of the food,
get nauseous and like, and it was just horrifying.
She didn't ever want to think about the fact that steak was a cow.
If someone started bringing up jokes about that, she'd be like, stop,
don't talk about that.
Oh my gosh.
Dude, the first time you see a little kid, um, learn that their chicken nuggets
or their chicken wings are made out of a chicken.
That's, that's an interesting time to, to see the kid working, processing stuff.
They're like, what?
No, what?
Like, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, like, I guess I was gifted with the experience of having lots of animals
die.
Like, uh, I was like super interested in animals and I just collected them.
I had a whole bunch of animals.
Uh, and, but like the thing is that little kids don't know how to take care of animals.
And it's weird that like, I don't know.
Um, I think a lot of times people will get their kid like something small as
opposed to getting a dog or a cat, something that's harder to kill by not
taking care of it correctly.
Uh, they'll get like, my parents got me like a hamster and then like,
are they especially susceptible to dying?
Oh yeah.
Um, well, this was two hamsters who killed each other.
Oh, this happens a lot.
Um, or, uh, I kept getting lizards and then like the pet store, the pet store.
Fuck pet stores.
Um, hold on, hold on.
We are getting way too, yeah, yeah, okay.
So rant about pet co another time.
The reason we have gray here is because one of the things that breaks down when
infrastructure breaks down during, you know, uh, short-term outages of
infrastructure in your city is security.
Uh, the cops sometimes can't get to where they, uh, need to be to prevent
bad things from happening and you have to take care of that shit yourself.
Or sometimes if things hit shit, it's the way they start bad things happening.
Right.
Exactly.
And, uh, the, the problem is that in those situations, when you really need to
go out and get a gun or something, it's too late.
You don't have a chance to do it now because the ability to get the gun is
gone.
It's something you had to have beforehand.
And, uh, I am somewhat, I have been somewhat anti gun, uh, but, yeah, now
that I trust the system far less than I used to, I am beginning to see the
wisdom of maybe having a gun locked up in your basement, possibly even, uh,
buried in your foundation's John Wick style so that there's no way you can get
to it and accidentally suicide yourself.
Or, well, I guess you still could if you were, uh, if you were really determined.
But the point being that you're not about to have the gun used against you in a,
in a, uh, in a burglary situation.
This is like when you really need the gun, you can go break open your foundations
and get it.
So we brought Gray here in order to ask him things about guns since he is the
discord gun guy, like, uh, what sort of guns should we get?
How can we keep them safe?
How do we maintain them?
That sort of thing.
So Gray, are you in fact a gun guy?
Yes, uh, one, I'd say not the gun guy, because there are enough other enthusiasts
on the conspiracy that we have the use of weapons channel to quarantine
discussion of such things.
But, uh, I would say that I'm definitely top 10% on the discord for overall
familiarity and technical knowledge.
And I've put enough reading into it and own a few of them.
So I feel comfortable offering my expertise here.
I guess I have the question to open with unless someone else also wants to open.
I guess my, my opening question would be if I want, um, a gun that is reliable
and easy to maintain and just, just a standard decent gun to not have on me
all the time, but that I can break out of my basement if I really need it in
situations where site is burying down for a couple of weeks, what sort of
sort of gun should I get?
Wait, can I guess you're going to say a shotgun?
Yes.
Can I, can I narrowly guess double barrel shotgun that doesn't have the pump
action that would deteriorate over years?
I actually wouldn't say double barrel.
I have a sentimental fondness for them and they can be quite useful with practice.
They, and they have, they have one advantage over pump action shotguns,
which is that because they don't have that repeating mechanism, uh, for an
equal barrel length, they can be about four inches shorter.
And that, that does make a difference if you're using them in security type
situations, but the amount of practice that you need to get their weird
reloading motion down and grab two, two shotgun shells reliably out of a pouch,
something like that.
Um, I, they're the fastest way to get two shells out, but a pump action will
always be faster for the third.
And since you only have to memorize one motion, one set of motions to do a pump
action properly and because they just repeat one by one by one, I think it's
easier to train and the maintenance requirements are honestly about the same.
Nice.
I was just saying, I mean, part of me is thinking that like in, in the average
home invader scenario from the movies, what I'm gathering is if you can't do it
in two shotgun blasts, then what's the third one going to do you?
Like if there's three guys, yeah, I mean, I, I guess, like, they don't know.
Maybe they, they won't be doing an inspection inspection of what kind of
gun you have.
And when they're first to have, you know, holes blown in them, they might just
leave.
Yeah.
So there is one possible argument in favor of a double barrel.
If you have exactly, if you're going to have exactly one gun and your intended
use is a home defense situation like that, which is that those two big gaping
muzzles pointed at you, the intimidation factor is extreme.
The other benefit of a shotgun with intimidation factor is that everyone
knows the noise of the double barrel or the noise of a shotgun.
All you have to do is like, this is my, my home defense strategy.
Should I have a shotgun at home is I hear them robbing the house.
I say, go, go nuts, take whatever you want.
And then if I get them caught upstairs, I'm like, Hey, I'm sitting behind
the door with a loaded shotgun and you can have whatever you want in the house.
But if the door opens, I'm going to shoot you in the face.
