if you since you don't specifically don't want it to be accessible on
except as a very deliberate decision, I would
store the gun itself locked and hidden somewhere
and like store the bolt, the main critical operating part
removed from the gun in a different and more securely locked
and even less obvious place. Oh, OK.
I there's at least one amusing story from the Spanish Civil War
in which the Republican forces took over,
captured a government armory with 100,000 rifles in it.
But the government troops had had the foresight to take the bolts out,
turning them into expensive, finely polished clubs.
Did they take the bolts with them? Yes. Oh, nice.
Yeah, they left behind and since the bolt is maybe five percent
of the weight of the thing, it was much easier than trying to take the guns
with them and denied it to the enemy equally effectively.
I'm trying to think of the funniest way to like hide a gun in plain sight.
I'm like, I'm imagining just using it like as the shaft of an umbrella.
So I don't do that with a gun.
But like a lampshade over it.
There's a rarely and well, not rarely enforced
because it's very vigorously enforced when they find out about it.
But for most people, it will rarely matter.
There is a rarely mattering law called the National Firearms Act,
which requires federal registration and a tax stamp and an extensive
and theoretically an extensive background check
for a couple of specific categories of gun.
And one of them is something that's not identifiable as a gun
or that that can be fired in a state where it's not identifiable as a gun.
So a pen gun like you see used in a couple of the Bond movies
that fall under it.
With 3D printing, you can make some pretty weird looking things
that are guns, but look nothing like a gun.
I could.
I have participated to some extent in 3D printed gun discussion
and would be entirely content to talk about that in some sort of parallel universe
where people's minds get killed.
OK, I can't imagine where we could find a venue like that.
So you have this gun, you've gone to the range and you've practiced with it,
I hope. How do you maintain the shotgun?
Clean it after at most every other shooting like cleaning
after every shooting is preferable, but honestly,
shotguns in particular are unlikely to require that level of maintenance.
Make absolutely certain periodically that all of the mechanics
are functioning in the intended ways and not in a couple of specific
unintended ways. I've seen one rifle go off
when the safety was turned off, because without getting too much
into the details, basically the trigger was pulled with the safety on
and the safety accomplished its goal of not having the gun be fired
when the trigger was pulled, but the mechanism didn't reset properly.
So when the safety was turned off, the already released
firing piece moved into the position it was supposed to.
Nobody was hurt.
The gun was pointed in a safe direction as it should have been,
but it was quite a shock for everyone present.
And what is involved in these cleaning maintenance things?
What do you do?
You do at least a cursory disassembly for any of the common models of shotgun.
I would specifically say if you're getting your very first gun
and you plan for it to be the only one looking to a Mossberg 500
or Remington 870, they've both been produced in the tens of millions
they're relied on by people who need guns they can rely on.
And if you're the sort of person who really likes to customize
the aftermarket, the accessory market for both is enormous.
So you can find easily enough on YouTube any video to disassemble either of these.
In the case of a shotgun, basically it means that you lubricate
all of the parts that are going to be in constant contact with each other.
Swab, powder fouling out of the barrel and chamber
and scrape off occasionally some burned on powder residue from the bolt.
How long does it take?
A cursory cleaning for a shotgun
you could probably accomplish with practice in 15 minutes.
I think there's a lot of, you know, like
depending on the culture and when, but often, you know,
like the reverence for one sword or something.
And like you can wipe that thing down in five seconds.
But a proper cleaning can be it was more of a
like some ritualistic and so like I don't know anyone personally
who treats their guns with that level of reverence.
But like it's not usually the kind of thing of like
at least in my limited experience where it's like, shit, I got to get this done.
Let me hurry up. It's like, no, I'm going to be, you know,
I'll sit at the table and watch a movie and I'll take them apart
and clean everything and get it all nice and done.
And then it's just kind of like
a leisure, it's a relaxed activity.
Yeah, none of the, particularly with a shotgun,
none and more particularly with a pump,
none of the individual activities involved in even a detailed cleaning
are mentally effortful once you actually know how to perform them.
So it's yeah, it's absolutely something that you could do while watching reruns.
And how much practice would you recommend
to get down the shooting and the loading part of knowing how to use a shotgun?
I'd spend five minutes a day cycling it with dummy rounds.
Get three or four of them so you can practice the reload motion.
There's four, how long, like a week, a month?
Five minutes a day for a week will have you familiar.
Five minutes a day for a month would probably have it in good muscle memory.
If you enjoy doing it, more practice certainly isn't going to hurt.
But I mean, like two hours at a ski shooting range would accomplish a considerable amount.
I mean, not for muscle memory and long term commitment sort of thing,
but just just getting your hand around the practice.
And like and it's one of those things too, for people who hate guns,
admitting that they're fun is like, I don't know, taboo.
But that's so I don't own guns.
But I fired several and it's a great time.
Like I get why people like them.
I I guess it's weird to discount that.
Like, I mean, I hate any invidious comparison to driving.
But like, you know, driving a muscle car is a lot of fun.
You know, if you've ever driven like, you know, an old diesel,
the ones that you feel shake, you know, and like that's again, it's fun.
And, you know, but again, it's not dangerous in the same way that shooting a gun is dangerous.
But it's I think there's a much more dangerous depending on.
Yeah, that depends on the metric you're using.
Yeah, I'm just thinking about the number of people killed.
Although, actually, I don't know what the numbers are for people killed by guns
versus by cars.
I was going to actually bring this up as an example of the availability heuristic.
Like a lot of people, I don't know a lot.
I mean, you hear a lot about gun deaths, right?
You hear a lot about gun deaths and many people are worried about being killed
in a mass shooting and don't be wrong.
I've let this fear affect my life, but not in a way that like is ruining it.
I think mass shootings are what?
0.2 percent of all deaths or 0.02 of all gun deaths.
I'm pretty sure it's even less than that.
Mass shootings are incredibly rare.
Yeah, but they kill more than one person.
That's usually I think minimum four.
Do you have this number at the top of your head, Gray?
You're my Wikipedia.
First order approximation.
Let's the my first order approximation of the worst case is one such shooting a week
in the US and let's say a mass shooting or yeah.
Once at one mass shooting a week spread across the population of 300 million.
I think it depends on how you define mass shooting because like I've heard people
saying like an armed robbery where four people got shot counts as a mass shooting.
Whereas to me, that's more like a drug deal gone wrong.
I want to think of mass shooting.
I think of like a school shooting and killing your family of five doesn't
count as a mass shooting.
Yeah, yeah, so squishing together a couple of category boundaries I've seen
that are probably useful for understanding that.
Let's say more than three victims, not directly known to the person committing
the crime and not in connection with another felony.
So that excludes like if a bank robbery went really badly and a bunch of people
got shot, that would be terrible, but it would also be not helpful to classify it
as a mass shooting because the dynamics at work there are not similar to the
it's a non-central example.
Yeah.
So let's say yeah, let's say one mass shooting a week to a first order
approximation of worst case and let's say just to be hyperbolic, I'm pretty
sure this is more than the average number, but 10 victims.
That would be 500 people a year, 520 people a year, which is actually fewer
last time I checked than the number of accidental gun deaths, which are also
vanishingly small, I think that there's something like 600 a year spread
across the entire population and that's about 2 percent of all the deaths
caused by firearms and and suicide numbers.
Those are in the tens of thousands, right?
Or thousands at least.
Twenty thousand give or take five thousand suicides, I think.
And ten thousand give or take three thousand homicides.
Yeah, the I think like the only.
Maybe not the only, but one of my misgivings about guns is that they do
increase the amount that people will commit suicide, because
if you give someone an easy way to kill themselves, they're more likely to do it
in a fit of peak as opposed to if they have to really think about it.
They usually don't.
That's why you cement it into your basement by the time you've broken it out.
You've got all that energy out and you don't want to kill yourself anymore.
Maybe you've exercised releasing endorphins.
Normans make you happy, happy people don't kill people.
So that is definitely an argument for the sort
of more code red only storage method that I suggested for any.
Ash. Yeah.
So you brought up mine killers.
I remember there was an episode about.
What was about transgender stuff?
Oh, the JK rallying being dumb about transgender stuff.
And I believe it was David on there that was saying, like, we'll just get a gun.
You know, if you're worried about violence, there's a technology for this.
Just just get and.
There is a steel man for that argument that I don't feel like because David's
very quippy, but he didn't give the good reasoning behind that.
Oh, do I want to do my best?
I'm already convinced, but like, I don't like to hear your thing anyway.
I want to hear everyone else's too.
But like, for me, what I what I like about the the best version of the argument
is that, again, if someone breaks in your door, I don't know how what your
measurements are, I'm like less concerned about someone breaking into my house as I
am like violence from people who hate gays or whatever.
Like, so you you're thinking like concealed carry or something.
Yeah, that's more where my like, I guess.
Yeah. So whatever your concern, I mean, the the the factor that I really like
about guns when it comes to self defense is that I'm not sure exactly how much
you weigh or how tall you are or whatever, but it doesn't really matter.
Like you're you're not six, five and 250 pounds.
I'm a small person.
Exactly. You're a small person.
But a six, five, 250 pound person is stopped by you with a gun and you don't
