Because there's a bunch of those here.
The laws on exactly what you can do there and the recommendations on what you
should are going to vary a lot by state.
I don't know if Colorado is one of the private sale background check states.
So like in Virginia, for example,
there isn't a requirement for a background check if the sale is from a
private citizen to another private citizen.
If you aren't actively in the business of dealing guns,
like there's not a bright line, but if you're selling one every three months
that you have owned for years, no one's ever going to look a skance at it.
In California, those sales are prohibited and everything has to go through a licensed dealer.
I imagine that you could get a better deal that way.
But then also you might want to worry about the quality.
And I wonder if it's even worth it.
Depends on the gun, if it's something made in the last 30 years and if you if you've
learned how, for example, to field strip the thing in question,
most modern pistols disassemble in vaguely similar ways.
So you can get an idea of that and you generally won't be able to at the gun show.
But you'll at least be able to look at some of the innards.
Yeah.
If you can't see any obvious problems and it's less than 30 years old,
you're probably in pretty good shape.
If there definitely is the warranty issue when you buy things that are used in that
fashion, you can get around that either by going to a gun shop and getting things
that either they've bought from owners or are selling on consignment, in which case
they'll have been inspected by usually been inspected by a gunsmith prior to
being offered for sale or by just buying new.
Some manufacturers will offer excellent warranties as well.
Most of them are only two original purchaser, but there are some that go the extra mile.
I would name them off the top of my head if I knew any.
There's another age related question.
So Inyash buys his AR 15 and or shotgun.
The numbers will be different and berries in his basement.
And in 15 years, shit hits the wind.
Is this ammo still good?
If it's been kept and we're in Colorado, so there's no humidity to damage it.
The main thing I think that's going to have
ammo go bad over time is the primers getting moist.
So keep your ammo dry and store with desiccant.
And it'll probably be good for longer than you remember where you put it.
Oh, OK.
I guess since we're almost done here, I have a final sanity check type of question.
So I, you know, assuming I'm preparing for a widespread breakdown that's going to
last for a few weeks and I go out every, let's say I'm not rigorous about it.
I don't cover every month, but like every quarter or so I go.
I rent a gun that's similar to what I have
buried, I practice with it, I make sure I know how to feel, strip it and stuff.
Twelve years from now, shit does hit the fan.
I need to defend myself for a couple of weeks.
Is having this at my disposal actually anything that will make me safer,
significantly safer, or am I like fooling myself that this is going to be any good?
If you've been practicing, even with that wide
and interval, if you've kept it up regularly for 12 years, I'd say that
you're noticeably better off the and you've probably had a lot of fun and gotten
some good exercise in the meantime.
If like me, you've not gotten outside enough during COVID-19, it will make sure
that you're getting the vitamin D you need.
So what you're saying is you're at least not going to be worse off.
You won't. Yeah.
If you've done it regularly for 12 years and you know the mechanics and you've
got the muscle memory, you will not.
You may not be better off, but there is no case that I can see in which that will be worse.
And hopefully I'll never have to pull that trigger on anyone.
That is what you hope.
But the.
Oh.
I think that being familiar with it, particularly not not relevant to any
Osh's mission requirements, I guess.
But since Jase brought up hunting, I think that using them will give you a better
appreciation of.
Trying to resolve situations like that without the use of force, because you
will understand exactly what the best alternative to negotiated agreement in
that situation is.
Yeah, not not understanding the weapon makes you more dangerous to everybody,
including yourself.
OK, this is why I think everyone, even if you don't plan on like owning guns ever,
should have a familiarity with them.
Like it's again, worst case scenario, you have.
Well, I guess worst case scenario, you're you're spooked and you hate it and you had
a terrible time, but if you find an enjoyment out of it, then you get this cool
experience and oh, yeah, that was fun.
I got to shoot guns and enjoy some time outside or whatever.
But it's like, I don't know.
If you have any concern that you might ever be around
in an emergency situation, like then at least you know what you're doing.
Yeah, so your opinion that most people should have some kind of training in some
gun, scrolled away somewhere.
Well, I had an I had an analogy for my thing.
Sorry. It's like, I know how to drive a stick shift.
I don't because it's tedious, but I know how to.
Should I ever be required to? Right?
Yeah, I think it's good to just learn as many skills as you can if you have the
opportunity. I've got a quick thing to say while we are wrapping up that I don't
endorse the lifestyle of the person I was talking about earlier, who like I need
a gun around all the time.
And again, especially because they don't live in circumstances that would
remotely require that.
I mean, if you're living on the wrong side of the law or something and you've got
enemies, then sure, I get it.
But in the person, in the average person I'm thinking of and prior average listener,
needing immediate access all the time to a gun in your own home is probably overkill.
It's not an uncommon response to violent trauma in your past, though.
It's not the case with this person.
But that what I, yeah, I mean, I get it.
Like I used to, when I was in college, I
delivered pizzas and delivered to somebody who lived out in the edge of town.
It was already weird.
I had to go through like a dirt driveway to go to his house.
And the answer is the door with a gun on its hip.
And I was like, expecting company.
And he's like, no, I just always have this.
And I was like, oh, all right, well, cool.
Here's the price.
And it's like I get one thing of like always wanting to be ready and be prepared.
And if you never shot a gun, it is like having a magic wand.
Like you, you, you're a magic death wand.
It is a magic death wand.
It's it's like it's one that only shoots reducto, basically.
But like explaining this to your ancestors,
it'd be like, oh, yeah, you know how like you try and throw rocks and hurt those
people over there with with two hours of practice, I can show you I'd put holes
in them that'll kill them immediately.
Like it sounds like magic and they feel really powerful.
I think there's just definitely like a very much of like a
I can't think of any word for it.
That's better than big dick energy around it.
But that sounds mildly pejorative, but it's not.
I'd say like more life affirming security, life affirming, but like
you feel safer with it.
Yeah, yeah, you feel safer because at any point you could you could just your
I think it's a scary feeling, though, because it's not necessarily accurate.
You can be less safe with a gun on your person at all times.
Yeah, it might make you more.
Yeah, if it if it's if you aren't putting a lot of discipline into the habits
that would require that then a pistol in particular could certainly make you less
safe in that sense.
As far as the big dick energy, I will respond to that with a quote from
another Heinlein novel, which also adorns TV tropes, his page on phallic weapons.
No, she's absolutely right.
He said, patting the enormous pistol on his hip.
This gun absolutely is a pain to substitute.
If I could kill it a range of 30 meters with only my penis, I wouldn't need to lug
this around.
It's very high.
But that is actually not the quote I was looking for.
So I want to I hope that I've done a good
enough job of making this clear with the discussion of actually using force.
I don't think it's a good idea.
One of the reasons that I think that people should be familiar with the care and
feeding of weapons is that is for an appreciation of how much more desirable
nonviolent solutions are.
And I think that people who have never
fired a weapon are just fundamentally less capable, less attuned to that reality.
I would like there to be a world with less,
with fewer circumstances that suggest the use of firearms,
but we don't live in such a nice ordered world.
So I'll quote since I feel like I'd be remiss if I didn't plug myself at least
a little bit with a quote from Excession, the book that my podcast is current,
the culture book that my podcast is currently covering.
It was a warship, after all.
It was built, designed to glory and destruction when it was considered appropriate.
It found as it was rightly and properly supposed to an awful beauty in both the
weaponry of war and the violence and devastation, which that weaponry is capable
of inflicting, and yet it knew that attractiveness stemmed from a kind of
insecurity, a sort of childishness.
It could see that by some criteria, a warship just by the perfectly articulated
purity of its purpose was the most beautiful single artifact the culture was capable of
producing, and at the same time understand the paucity of moral vision, such a judgment implied.
To fully appreciate the beauty of a weapon was to admit to a kind of shortsightedness
close to blindness, to confess a sort of stupidity.
Skipping a couple of sentences by this measure, the love or just the appreciation
of weapons was a kind of tragedy.
Nice. Excellent.
I like that a lot, and I'm with you.
Like it would be really cool.
I think I'm drawing a meaning from that, even if it's not the one that was intended.
Maybe it is the one that's intended.
It would be awesome to live in a world where that sort of thing wasn't appreciated.
You see something and it's just this ghastly horror show, like somebody has a
torture implement or something.
And yet that's not the world we live in.
For many people, they make sense to have a round.
And so like then it becomes like a not insane thing to have a visible collection.
Like, hey, check this out. Isn't this cool?
Yeah, this one only made 1978 or whatever, you know, like or you know,
whatever random stuff, but yeah, I didn't articulate that well.
In the beautiful world that we could build,
like there would be a beauty in people, in children, not recognizing them in,
adults not telling children about them because that's something they were likely
to simply never encounter, like death in after the Dementor attack in HPMOR.
But that that isn't, as you say, that's not the world that we live in.
My favorite, I think the coolest acknowledgement of this reality has to go
to one of the tenets of Sikhism, the wearing of an at least symbolic dagger
called the Kierpan.
They have a hasten to add, I am not familiar with the nuts and bolts of Sikhism.
This is largely this is stuff I've found from reading favorable articles about
this tenet and what I could learn on Wikipedia about the religion.
So if there are any actual Sikhs, I welcome correction.
But the
or if there are any actual Sikhs listening, there are obviously
