the actual Sikhs, but the Kierpan is part of the ideal of being the the Saint soldier.
We would like a world that's orderly and safe, but the world that we actually live
in is at least in at least sometimes in at least some places
chaotic and dangerous and unpleasant.
And on some level, you should feel responsible
at least to yourself for being able to deal with that world when it rears its ugly head.
And the wearing of the dagger is symbolic of that.
And I think it's a cool, awesomely mature attitude that more that people could
benefit from learning more about.
I do wonder what the world would look like if everyone was given a gun.
And, you know, mandated practice that you use it, you know, within reason.
Again, with the convicts and the
violent, mentally ill, but like you mean like a personal handgun or like a long arm
like they do in Switzerland?
I don't know, in particular, just the idea of if there was the equality of
ability to do violence, what that would look like, because that's never been the case.
What else?
The learning curve, I think, would be pretty nasty in that world.
And I think the equilibrium of everyone can exert lethal violence on the spot is a
complicated and very ritualized system of etiquette that wouldn't be badly compared
to samurai.
I don't think it's terribly desirable.
But I wonder what how it would affect
whether this would be a more or less violent society, like whether people would be
less likely to attack people if you know that everybody's packing.
It might just make you get creative.
I mean, like, I mean, this is we're wrapping up.
I don't want to open up a can of worms, but like if I'm if my goal is to hurt
somebody and I know that they have a gun, well, I just will make sure I hurt them
before they get to it, right, even if it's on their person.
But a lot of people's goal is just to hurt people
because they like hurting people.
They don't necessarily they're not gunning for someone, right?
They just want to beat someone up.
Yeah, I mean, yes, I might cut down on like school bullying if someone is really
passionate about that issue.
If every student had a gun.
Rape.
I'm pretty sure that if one percent of random assaults on trans people led to
the assailant getting nonfatally shot, they would dry up in a hurry.
Yeah, a lot of.
Oh, just I don't know.
I'm thinking about like the Black Panthers and.
Arming themselves, scaring people into wanting more gun safety stuff, suddenly
more restrictions.
I will add on that note before discussing some other notable colored
Panthers that I'm generally well, not generally, I'm very much and almost for
that exception, not a fan of openly carrying long guns.
What's that?
It's intrinsically there's a really strong tendency for it to be perceived
as confrontational, no matter how polite you are.
And they're just because of the size and because of the way that they're worn.
You either put them on a sling, in which case it's very obvious that you have it
or you're carrying it at something like port arms and both of those just make
the gun more obvious if you must carry something openly without the anticipation
of trouble, it should probably be a pistol.
But you I'm not a huge fan of open carry for that and tactical reasons.
OK, you lose a lot of defensive advantage if someone knows that you have a weapon
before the confrontation started.
The other colored Panthers I was going to bring up in the vein of the random
attacks on trans people with lavender Panthers gave a Jalanti group who operated
in the San Francisco Bay Area and I want to say the early 70s.
Oh, hadn't heard of these.
Yeah, they would drive around in a van, find people who had just attacked random
gay people and work them over with bats and two by fours because the kind of person
who's just randomly going to and nobody ever tried even tried to catch them
because the kind of person who's insecure or hateful enough to just attack
random gay people is not going to go to the police and admit that he ended up on
the end of an ass kicking at the hands of the lavender Panthers.
Yeah, there was something similar in India where they had a gang of women that would
find male rapists and beat them up.
I think that sticks.
Forget what they called them, but maybe I could find it and put it in the notes.
I have one last random thought, which was
when we were talking about ideal worlds, ideal world, I think would be everybody
could keep a backup of their brain.
So if there ever was a confrontation, you know, whether you have to
lethally shoot someone for self protection or you get shot, then you can just be
quite so permanent, like built a new body and have your upload stuck back in there.
And it has a whole range of other uses.
If the building a new body is fast enough, you can effectively use it as teleportation.
All right, we are over time, so we should wrap up.
Yeah, we are thinking of patron as we always do, because we're never over time
for doing that. Who's trying to think?
Jace is probably because you missed a couple of episodes.
Yeah, I did, although I kind of wanted to do the next one.
And I'm doing grade.
Do you want to take a picture?
Have you gotten the joy of thanking a patron?
I guess I've been here long enough to almost become an institution.
So today's patron to be thanked is Tom Beale.
Tom, thank you for letting us bring this to everyone.
Help, I don't know.
I hope you don't mind the gun topic, but
help everyone maybe be a little bit safer in case of a terrible breakdown and make
an interesting episode, if not.
And it's less about this episode as it is about the institution of the episodes.
Exactly. If this is producing value that in aggregate,
you enjoy, that's we appreciate hearing that.
That's awesome.
I was so happy to hear on the last episode
base theorem talking about how much impact the podcast it had on him.
Obviously, it's had an impact on me.
I mean, and I've heard that from a lot of other people, too.
So, Tom, you're like supporting this whole this whole thing that a lot of people
are getting value out of. That's great.
Every now and then you get a little burnt out and you're like,
why am I still doing this? It doesn't matter.
And then you hear from, you know, Alex, base theorem, something like that.
And they're like, oh, I'm doing a good thing for some people.
Yeah, I'm going to keep doing this.
It's nice and effusive.
The last time I remember you
waxing emotional about it to that extent was someone who emailed in and said,
yeah, I've been listening to this since I was nine.
Oh, yeah. And then we were like, oh, no, but we use the F word a lot.
But that also means like you've probably had more influence on their lives than
a couple of musicians and a lot of cartoons.
Yeah, I remember a period where the skeptics guide to the universe
podcasters felt like friends to me where I would listen to them every day because
I had a 45 minute commute to and from college for five years and then like three
years about the same to work.
And I talked, I didn't talk to them, but I heard their voices like more often than
like it was other people in my life.
I was so stoked when I got Jay to do a voice.
That's awesome.
Yeah, I did actually reflect not too long ago that with the possible exception
of Cecil Baldwin from Welcome to Night Vale, I've probably heard listened to
Anyasha's voice for more time than I've heard any other human being speak
because hundreds of episodes of the HPM or podcast over years.
Then, you know, an extra 90 minutes per episode of this.
Yeah, if not in first place, definitely top five.
Damn.
Yeah.
All right.
I'm flattered. I'm, wow, OK.
You can't see it, but I'm doing a double thumbs up.
All right, well, thank you for joining us.
Tell us once again what your other podcast is that you work on.
We uncultured swine or just uncultured swine now there.
We have a Discord server which is linked on the Bayesian conspiracy server.
And we will also link it in the show notes.
And where can people find this podcast?
They just Google that.
They can find it.
I think we've only got it on iTunes right now.
Yeah, it's up there as uncultured swine and we're currently on our fourth book.
Excellent.
All right.
Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us and we will see you all again in two weeks.
Good night, friends.
