I've heard that the racking sound of a shotgun, uh, I guess being loaded is
enough to stop most people and deter them.
So I, I know of cases where that definitely didn't apply, but it's a
very distinctive sound.
And if, I guess if someone's fight or flight isn't already engaged when they
hear that, that's going to cut out the fight option for most people.
Uh, and I believe there's case law in a couple of states that that constitutes
a demand that they leave that once, if you build that noise, that is all
the warning you're required to give.
So what I'm wondering is, could you like just do what Steven said, but like,
maybe just have your cell phone play the sound of a shot.
I don't know.
I don't think you're going to get the base required out of a cell phone
speaker, honestly.
You could probably build like a little, a little button, you know, with the
right speaker that would do it.
But then in that, I mean, it's, it's part of the, you know, the, the game
theoretical implications of it is like, you don't want them to test the, your
metal, or, you know, if they're like, well, I don't care about getting shot
or whatever, then you want to actually be prepared to have to do the worst.
Yeah, but if you want to, if you want to, you know, uh, repel some
percentage of invaders that might work.
Well, I categorically can't endorse putting more effort into the bluff than
it takes to actually have the actual threat available.
So I'm going to say, even if you could, don't.
Uh, isn't it a bit of work getting a gun, getting the licensing,
practicing with it and maintaining it?
So getting it under most circumstances, not that big a deal.
If you don't have a criminal record and you don't live in a couple of states
that are just comically, stupidly draconian about this, um, the fact
of not having a criminal record will be sufficient to get you a gun over the
counter in less than an hour.
Oh, and also they cost money, right?
Yeah.
So a pump action shotgun of the type that I would suggest getting, if you're
going to get exactly one gun after tax and including a bit of ammo, you're
probably looking at spending 400 bucks.
Yeah, that's a lot of money for some people.
Oh, okay.
But getting a convincing, convincing robot would also be somewhat expensive,
but playing a sound from YouTube on your computer, if that would work on 10%
of whatever.
Well, um, I was being kind of facetious about that, but I like the idea
because part of it is the, is the, um, repelling factor of just having it,
right?
Like I, sorry, go ahead.
I, it's related, but it's like, I was talking to somebody about guns just
recently and, um, their primary home defense gun has a laser on it.
And someone was pointing out, like they, they got into some, apparently it was
relaying an argument to me that he had, and was saying that, you know, that's
like, uh, showing intent to harm or something.
Cause your, your pinpointing is like, no, I think it's an act of, of compassion
towards the person.
Cause that is the last, that's, that's the last straw, basically.
They see that.
And then if they don't stand down, they know exactly where that bullet's going.
Yeah.
That I would.
So get a laser pointer.
Yeah, exactly.
Again, you're making more effort to, to have the bluff that the actual
threat requires.
Well, laser planners are nine bucks.
Yeah, that's, um, so you said in under an hour, isn't there usually
multiple day waiting periods?
Uh, that depends on a couple of factors.
This, the specific state you're in being the biggest one, uh, Virginia, where
I grew up has, I think a three day waiting period for handguns and a law
that prevents you from purchasing more than one in a month, but those are both
waived if you have a concealed carry permit.
And the, and it doesn't apply to like long, long guns.
Those almost never apply to long guns.
Um, in Minnesota, where I lived before moving to Colorado, they have
something called a permit to purchase.
And what you do for that, it's basically a sort of pre background check.
The state runs, you go down to city hall, you fill out this form and the, the
license they give you is required to purchase handguns and certain kinds
of rifle that looks scary.
Uh, and basically it just means that that permit means that the, that the
state police have already checked you against the state's databases of organized
crime affiliates, known gang members, uh, like all felony convictions, period,
uh, drug arrests because that's a disqualifying factor and also involuntary
psychiatric admissions because that's a disqualifying.
I was going to ask about, what about mental health?
If you haven't been, uh, found guilty by reason of insanity or found
not guilty by reason of insanity in court or involuntarily committed to a
mental hospital, uh, then you don't fall under the mental health
exclusions for ownership.
Okay.
Before we get too far field, uh, I know that we were all expecting to say shotgun,
but can you tell us why specifically a shotgun would be your first recommendation?
Because a shotgun is, uh, how do I put this?
I'm trying to remember the phrase that this was first given.
So shooting a rifle is sciencey.
Um, the sites are somewhat complicated.
There are a lot of ballistics and there's a lot of ballistics knowledge
that goes into using a rifle beyond its point blank range.
Um, the particular selection of ammunition has, well, some influence, but not
a lot most of the time, but there are a lot of variables involved in shooting
a rifle that you sort of have to know to, to cover all the things you would use
a rifle for.
And you also have to aim, right?
Yeah.
The, the aiming for rifle is more complicated.
Uh, shotguns are more artsy.
They're the aiming of a shotgun involves pointing.
It's done in fast and intuitively.
And unlike the aiming of a rifle, it works off of muscle memory.
And like, I think the majority of cases where you'd be using it for
self-defense, it would be short range.
So it's unlikely to shoot somebody at 30 yards and self-defense.
Yeah.
If you're, if the person's 30 yards away, unless there's a rifle pointed at you,
it's not a self-defense shooting.
Exactly.
And I mean, and how close do they have to be for it to be self-defense?
I mean, in, in practice, there has to be some sort of lethal threat, but I don't
think that I would not be comfortable making an argument that someone 30 yards
away was a threat unless I'd tried to run first and they'd followed.
Okay.
Um, most pistol shooting, like the effective range of a pistol, which is
probably the commonly used defense thing just because it's what police carry
mostly, those almost always happen within five yards.
That's short.
Yes.
Holy shit.
I heard someone sprinting with a knife can usually cover nine yards before
someone can draw and fire a handgun.
Yes.
You'd need a lot of practice to narrow that.
And I still wouldn't like to rely on it.
The other thing too, I mean, just like with the knife thing, again, two
opponents standing in an open field and under ideal conditions, someone couldn't
sprint in your house.
You don't have enough runway.
And even if you did, you've got, they've got to run upstairs.
Like, I mean, they're a chance to trip over.
Exactly.
So, you know, I think of gun safety primarily in the terms of home defense.
And so that sort of factor doesn't really play in.
Like you've got a lot of cover.
If someone kicked your one access point in, I guess two, if they broke
into the downstairs door or whatever, but from where you are, you're situated
enough to where if you're pointing a gun at them, that they have a knife, you're
like, I, you guys can leave or, you know, the corners can drag you out.
Right.
Honestly, the downstairs access point is much less secure.
Right.
This is a solid door with the deadbolt.
The downstairs is just plate glass.
You can break it with a rock.
Yeah.
But so I guess the cliff notes of why I'd recommend a shotgun, they're cheap to
acquire, cheap to shoot.
The maintenance requirements are low and the training is generally easier.
And for a lot of people, more fun, if you're taking, if you're getting a
shotgun and just want to take up shooting, I would recommend picking up
skeet shooting or trap shooting.
That is fun.
That's so for people not familiar with the term, these are various shotgun
sports that involve a clay target, a clay disk being thrown through the air
that you're supposed to nail with the shotgun when it's flung.
And I believe it explodes satisfyingly if you hit it.
If you, if you get a very, if you get a central hit on it, it turned just
evaporates into a cloud of smoke.
It is most satisfying every now and then you'll just get it with one pellet
and it'll just kind of wobble, wobble, wobble.
But I've also seen the impact that skeet makes on any use of a shotgun.
It's valuable even to professionals.
I know people with no military background who whose only use of it is to
shoot skeet regularly.
And I've seen them humiliate US Marines in informal competition.
It's also just fun.
And we'll have to get around to that part of the aspect of it, maybe if we
get time, but it's a blast.
Like, I mean, and I'm maybe lowballing it, but probably not that much.
I think the time from I've never seen a shotgun before to proficiency is 10 minutes.
I'm serious for home defense purposes.
Like just, Hey, here's how you hold it.
This is the end of the bullets come out.
You point in the general direction of what you're aiming for and you'll hit them.
Like there's really nothing to it.
So to aim it.
Yeah, I can, I can believe that for, for just learning to aim the thing.
As far as the aim it, if it took them more than 90 seconds, I'd take it away from them.
Like that.
I mean, there's nothing to aiming one as far as the other muscle memory you need.
I would be comfortable saying that five minutes a day of practice will put you in
good stead if you're not paranoid.
Yeah.
What about the recoil?
So that is a, there are a lot of things that will influence that if you're
buying something for home defense, you will not want to use the same sorts of shells
you would typically use for skeet.
That's actually another advantage of shotguns.
By the way, if you have any uses in mind that aren't home defense, shotguns can be
retooled for a lot of different applications with just a change of ammo.
And the ammo is widely available and there's an extreme variety of it.
Are there any especially fun uses that are not home defense?
Ski shooting, target practice is fun.
