have to learn how to fight like, you know, Bruce Lee to take this person down
enough dedicate a lifetime of training to be able to survive an encounter.
If you're three feet away, if you're three feet from arms reach from them
and you're ready to shoot, you you are safe, right?
I think that's another thing where you could just intimidate people to back down
to because that kind of like, there's like harassment and mostly like
transgendered people tend to get beat up.
Maybe they'll get beaten to death or whatever.
But it's not often somebody just like coming at you with a gun.
See, I would be worried about getting jumped if I had a gun on me.
Like, so that's that's the circumstance where if I felt like I was going to get
jumped, I would draw the gun first, not wait till I was getting mass kicked.
Release.
Yeah.
I mean, you wouldn't be able to.
Do they make finger print release things you carry on your person?
They do, but I've heard they're not very good because they have delicate
electronics that tend to get banged around when the explosion happens in them.
Yeah, as a dude, don't rely on anything
electronic, more complicated than a laser sight in a firearm setting.
Those probably exist, but they're not commercially marketed because.
Well, at least partly because there's been a lot of lobbying to prevent them
from being required lest they become mandatory everywhere.
And I know that the NRA agitated against them for extensively in the 80s and 90s
when they were being talked about as tech of the immediate future.
Yeah, I was going to say they've been around that long
so that they were just saying no earlier than Reagan administration.
And I'm pretty sure that there haven't ever been any examples ready for to be marketed.
Yeah, I guess my concern, though, is that like if you're getting jumped and then,
you know, the gun goes flying out of your concealed holster inside your jacket or
something, then this goes from an ass kicking to a like there's a gun in the situation.
Yeah.
So that's why I mean, I guess it depends.
You know, if like this is the situation where I think in the mind killer's example,
it was leaving women's restrooms available to assigned women because it's a nice place.
It's like a refuge.
Then that's that's the I can see the argument there
because then society will say, hey, you're not allowed in there.
You six five burly man.
And again, complexity is a side.
I understand that argument, but
like that's not necessarily a situation at that point where you're ready to kill somebody.
And that's the important part of having a gun.
Like it's it's nice to be able to threaten somebody.
But if they don't back down, especially if they're close enough to harass you to a
point where you're actually scared, like if someone's yelling at you from across
the street, whatever, like that sucks, but not worth not worth, you know, a gun fight.
But if somebody is close and grabbing and shaking you or something,
that's almost like too late.
You've got to extricate yourself and then like or if you do go for the gun,
use it immediately, you can't like be.
I mean, you tell me if I'm wrong, Gray, but I'm just imagining the situation.
And maybe I'm painting too vivid a picture, but you wouldn't want somebody
grabbing and shaking you and you hold the gun while you're being held by them
and say, let go or I'll shoot because then they're right there.
Oh, if they're already touching, you would probably just shoot.
That's that's what I'm saying.
Yeah, I wouldn't even like try to intimidate at that point.
And, you know, if they're in contact, the time for that sort of thing has passed.
Top two topical additions, though, partly because you've been talking about
something you're carrying and that is sort of out of what we've already been
discussing, if you don't already have a gun and aren't willing to spend
significant time learning to use a pistol, don't get one.
The learning curve is much less forgiving.
There are more things that can go wrong.
The muscle, the amount of stuff you have to get into muscle memory is greater.
And yeah, in general, that's a much bigger lifestyle decision.
I guess I agree.
It's a bigger lifestyle decision, but I'm like every Volver is and you'll
correct me, but not that much more complicated than a shotgun.
Like it's got two moving parts.
Mechanically, no, but like in terms of actually using it,
for one thing, because there's no spread, accuracy with a pistol is a fantasy.
Like getting getting the amount of accuracy with a pistol that you would get
with a long gun is a fantasy.
But you're not looking for accuracy for, you know, self-defense.
Have you ever seen the security videos of two people about 10 feet away
emptying clips into each other and neither one hits?
Like guns are ridiculous.
Pan guns are ridiculously easy to not even get close to your target.
It's probably like an upper bound on the accuracy of the biggest class of people
getting into gunfights in the US, namely police officers.
I would upper bound their shot for shot accuracy at 10 percent.
That sounds generous. Yeah.
Yeah, that's why I find it hilarious when in movies, like someone who's never used
a gun, you know, someone will throw them a gun, be like, take this and then they're
just firing it and it's like, no, no, they are easy.
Like, I mean, again, doing it with accuracy and, you know, especially accuracy
per shot or whatever, extremely good.
If someone is like just out of arms reach, exactly at point blank range,
they're about to step close to you.
You can tag them in the torso.
No problem.
You shouldn't be thinking of a handgun as a ranged weapon.
It's a power fist.
But that exactly.
And that's how I think of them.
Like, yeah, I can't I can never imagine a situation where you want a
ranged weapon for self defense, unless your range is 20 feet in your house or
something, like if you're a crack shot and you spend several, I don't know,
dozen or so hours a month practicing or something, then it's like, all right,
cool, you're probably prepared from the dining room table to shoot your front
door if you need to.
Like, I'm thinking specifically of somebody who I learned a few days ago has
a gun attachment underneath their dining room table with a magnet that they
just pull the gun down and it's ready to go.
And they make a compelling case.
So in the in the paranoid, I need this for home defense in the event of somebody
breaking in, which is ridiculous for this person's life circumstances aside from
that, but for that, for that idea around chambered.
No, he's not.
He's not an idiot.
OK.
So like, but but the but the rationale is that most of his guns are in a safe in
the back of the house.
One is accessible in his dresser drawer, I think.
But like those are both past the living room door.
And so someone comes in and says, aha, I've got you.
Then it's like, no, I don't have to run past you to get to my bedroom.
I've got a gun right here.
Yeah, the my thoughts on that would take too long to discuss for the and that
would be too technical for this episode.
In general, yeah, if you don't want to include guns as a lifestyle thing,
avoid handguns.
Totally brings a better pick for literally everything.
Well, the other topical addition I wanted to make on shotguns because
Jase asked about ammunition.
I will repeat the recommendation for number four,
buckshot, if you're interested in something that might ever be fired in doors.
If you are as Jase is somewhat slight of build,
go with a 20 gauge rather than a 12 gauge.
And regardless of which one you pick, get a recoil pad.
It will be a large quality of life improvement while you're practicing.
How much practice would you recommend in just shooting?
If you're doing the reload drills,
I'd say you can probably keep from atrophying too much with one weekend
of like a day, a weekend day of skid in a month.
No, so but you'd have to you would recommend doing at least one week of the
skid out of every four weeks. Yes. Wow. OK.
And the thing about shooting skid is it's fun enough that if this agrees with you,
it's something that won't feel like an imposition anyway.
How much does that cost then?
Depends on the ranges in your area.
I can't remember what a membership at the nearest skid range to my house in
Minnesota cost, but it wasn't terribly unreasonable.
You're looking at a few cents a pop for the clay pigeons and
well, more now, but I seem to remember target loads like you would use for
shooting skid being between 15 and 25 cents before covid per shell.
Oh, yeah. And then has covid affected your ability to get a gun?
It definitely led to some panic buying early on.
I already had most of what I wanted.
So I'm sorry, I met you plural like the generic you.
Yeah.
So there was definitely some panic buying right after the pandemic was declared.
The there's probably still a delay on background checks.
It's been over a year since I had to file one of those forms.
So I have no direct experience with the climate right now, but I have
looked to buy ammunition during this time and it definitely got more expensive.
It's not like right after Barack Obama got reelected expensive,
but it is definitely above equilibrium pricing right now.
So above the above routine pricing right now.
If you don't want to put that much money and time into getting a gun,
and if your concern is more again, like protection on the go,
do you have recommendations for other kinds of, I don't know, I'm thinking
like pepper spray, taser,
what other types of self defense besides a gun or even, I don't know,
what are your recommendations?
So I have a hard time recommending tasers because they're more much more
dangerous to the person they're being used on than pepper spray and
not as relative, not as effective relative to pepper spray as guns are.
They seem kind of fiddly.
They're also they can be reliably stopped by thick clothing.
So depending on where you live, they may be worse than useless for a good chunk
of the year. Yeah.
Gets cold too.
Yeah, pepper spray is
pepper spray has the virtue that if you're if the idea of actually using lethal
force is really troubling to you and it should be at least somewhat troubling.
If it's really troubling to you that you might kill somebody,
pepper spray is something that will very, very reliably not do that.
I guess if someone had like horrifying multi trigger asthma and did that and
were hit with pepper spray and an ambulance couldn't get to them in time.
It's very happy pen.
Yeah, there are a lot of things that have to go wrong all at once for someone to
die from being pepper sprayed and unless someone's taken a fair number of precautions,
it will cause a lot of very distracting discomfort.
The last time I remember talking to you about its use with someone who is familiar
with it, it was a New Mexico state trooper.
And what he explained to me was that New Mexico state troopers aren't allowed to
carry pepper spray until they've been subject to a grueling application of it
directly to themselves so that they understand just how much suffering is
behind that button when they press it.
Yeah, I saw it involved being like continuously sprayed into the eyes,
nose, and mouth for over a minute.
A minute.
You have to approach the person who's pepper spraying you and relieve them.
Can I say they're not going to like wrestle you for it,
but you have to approach them under this continuous spray directly into your face
and grab the can.
Why? Why is that the requirement?
