So sporting clays in particular, which is designed to simulate like you moving
through an environment with game birds is particularly ridiculously fun.
So instead of just having as like on a trap range, there will be a house that
you're a trap house that you're standing in front of and the clays will be flung
out in random directions on a sporting clays course.
There might be one that simulates a rabbit and the clay target will roll on
its side along the ground and have a jump at a defined point.
Oh, cool.
The variety of tests that it can subject you to, it's a bunch of fun.
That's the kind of that I did was it wasn't so you basically moved
across something like a dozen different arenas and then they would fire
from one or two spots, often simultaneously.
And it's I mean, it's it's fun and engaging, but there is recoil.
I mean, by the end of the day, I had a nice shoulder bruise
and it was the second manliest bruise I've ever received.
So I don't do a lot of manly things.
So I was very proud of it.
Yeah.
Shotguns, they do throw a lot of lead.
They don't throw it very fast, but they throw a lot of it.
A turkey load, like something you'd go off for wild turkey.
For that, you want a lot of really fine shot.
So you actually have to use a shell that's longer than the standard
length just to fit all the shot and powder in there and to make sure
that normal guns don't take the ammo by mistake.
Would that would that be on the scatter shot?
That that's just a general term for the first shot.
Like with shotguns, you start at birdshot, which can be very, very fine
down to like a millimeter per pellet.
They the sizes can step up pretty big from there.
Then you get into buckshot named because somebody at some time
thought it was appropriate for deer hunting.
Personally, I wouldn't chance it, but it could work in a pinch.
And then the next step up from buckshot is slugs,
which is just a solid one ounce blob of lead that's launched at one
and a half times the speed of sound.
I can't remember the goddamn name of it, but what is it when you
shoot basically a bunch of shrapnel?
Flush it rounds.
Yeah, those those aren't for shotguns, though.
They they exist for shotguns.
They were tested in Vietnam.
The problem with them is that they're partly because steel is not very dense.
They're comically ineffective under a variety of common circumstances.
Rain drops will knock them off course.
But the point is you shoot a lot of them, right?
So like you're almost guaranteed to have a few of them hit.
Yeah, the principle with a shotgun is just none of the individual pellets
is supposed to cause the terminal performance that you want.
But with enough pellets, you're going to get something somewhere.
You won't have your pellets going after something like deer.
Then you do going after birds because, well, there's a lot more meat
in the way that you have to damage.
You're very resilient.
So getting back to our defense thing,
what kind of shot do you want to buy for taking down humans?
So the human shot for this purpose,
we'll call it, we'll assume that humans are deer.
OK.
In the military settings that I've seen,
you commonly see double or triple zero,
usually pronounced triple ought buck shot used.
Triple ought buck is a bullet
about the size of a millimeter pistol bullet
and the shell will contain around nine of them.
So that one shell is equivalent to emptying a pistol into someone up close.
Damn. I don't.
But it goes a lot slower than a pistol.
Oh, it goes faster.
There's a lot more barrel to accelerate it.
Oh, OK. Yeah, you're you're probably getting.
I think you might actually get after accounting for the bullet weights.
You're you're definitely getting at least as much energy propellant
as a pistol would deliver.
But the the spheres are lighter
and they don't penetrate as well.
So I'd say that the the overall performance per blob of lead breaks even.
I don't recommend zero or larger buck shot, though,
if you're talking about using it for home defense,
because it will go through both sides of a drywall.
The police standard I'm for the for this reason in a lot of cases
is number four buck shot, which will go through one sheet rock, but not two.
So if you're firing, shoot your neighbor.
If you're firing it inside the house,
you don't have to worry about anyone outside the room you're in.
And that is a pretty big advantage since the whole reason you're
doing defending is that there are people in the house
that you care about more than things. Gotcha.
And unless they're all behind you,
including your neighbors, if you share walls with people,
that's when you load up the good stuff.
If as we do, you live in somewhat densely populated areas,
I would be very careful to select something that won't leave the house.
So how do you keep this safe in your house?
My guns are kept.
I have a gun safe on order, a big, heavy one
that's probably going to take forever to deliver because covid.
But the my current storage involves a case
that has several locking points on its own.
And when the options available,
that is chained with hardened, especially hardened chain
with an additional lock to a radiator.
OK, if you live someplace that has radiators,
they're very good to chain that sort of thing, too.
I don't have radiators, but I have a basement with exposed studs.
Can I drill like a hole through a stud and feed the chain through that?
If you've got anything else like load bearing that's visible,
I would use it first and like chain it to a support column.
The there are if you don't have
if you've got exposed studs,
you could just nail another hard piece of wood to two of them
and use that as your, you know, your rack to drill through.
And it might be easy to kick kick that wood.
Well, no, maybe if I put like two large screws through both sides.
Yeah, make it make it sturdy.
What if you just chained it to a bunch of like chain a bunch of things together?
So it would just be very unwieldy, like to your coffee table, to your couch.
Like that's actually a fun example that I was going to bring up.
I've seen in like highly secured building
settings, this system that I would gather is specified by the insurance age,
by the insurance industry for rating the security of doors.
It will say something like this door is certified
against two hours of surreptitious entry attempts
or five minutes of brute force up to an including sledgehammer.
If yeah, if someone is willing to use dynamite,
there's no door that's going to secure anything, but I just find it funny
that people try to enter through doors or windows when you could just get a saw
is all and like usually cut your way right through the wall.
Well, it's way easier to enter unnoticed through a door or window.
That's true. That's that's why they separately rate the surreptitious
and brute force attempts.
Like dynamite plus sledgehammer will clear any door that you can get through alone.
It may damage what you want to take.
So probably that's why people don't just default to that option.
So what were you saying about insurance companies and the gun safes?
Oh, so well, the if you don't have one thing you could do with a safe
in it, since you own the place is get a safe and actually screw it into the studs.
A lot of safes will have screw holes so that you can you put it up
against the wall and you screw it onto the studs.
So they have to basically structurally compromise the house in order to move the safe.
That's the best case or the best case is that, but you have concrete to work with.
The second best case is being able to get it into the studs like that.
If you rent and like most landlords I've had, your landlord is not comfortable
with you drilling holes in structural elements of the building.
Then you're probably best off with enough security that it's inconvenient to try to get open
and then also just having the storage concealed.
There are a lot of products you can buy that will, for example,
stick to the underside of a bed frame and hold a shotgun there.
Some of them will have a like a lock that can be released with a fingerprint
or with a finger touch combination that you can do in the dark.
And it will release the gun.
You can pull it away from that.
Could you stick an alarm on it to you could.
And there are I can't think of a specific example,
but I am sure that there exist locking solutions like that.
You mean just to show that the shotgun's been moved?
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, they make those little they're 10 bucks to a pair.
You spilled them good about Walgreens.
They put on sliding doors or windows.
And it's just, you know, if the magnet gets far enough away from the base part of it,
it starts screaming.
So let you know if the door was opened or whatever.
I mean, you could just if you're doing under the bed solution,
you could just have, you know, the magnet glued or taped to the gun.
Barrel and the battery part DIY.
Yeah. If you're if you're storing it in a way that doesn't require immediate access,
which is what I would prefer.
Like, you know, I only want to bust this out in the once in a decade actual emergency.
Well, you want it to still be something that you can get at
in the space of a few seconds when you want to, which I think I personally do not.
Those touch locks are generally, I think, good for that reason.
If it takes you 60 seconds to get at, it's not useful when you need it.
I see I am again, specifically thinking about societal breakdowns.
The the city has been hit with a disaster where I will have time
to take a sledgehammer into my basement and break it out of the foundation.
John Wick style. So your plan isn't home defense.
No, like for forever circumstances.
Is for in that case, just like.
Oh, his plan is civil disturbance.
Yeah, we're talking about different mission requirements.
Yeah. Yeah.
Just tighter than the wall.
You absolutely could just keep them in a safe
if you want to look cool and have a room you can show off.
Then you can also get wall racks that will accomplish largely the same thing.
But, you know, leave them visible while they're stored safely.
Wall of guns picture can be kind of cool.
So that's not a terrible idea, but the safe is still strictly safer.
So all of one gun is probably not as cool, though.
Hence the name.
My grandfather had a pretty cool rifle
that was mounted above his fireplace.
And I always thought that was pretty manly.
And it worked in that one zombie movie parody.
Shaun of the Dead. Oh, yeah, yeah.
They had the rifle at the pub that happened that apparently
when they when they need it, turns out to not be deactivated.
That being said, if you.
OK, since for your mission requirements, Anyosh,
