Other wrist.
Well, you know, for a weird, definitely someday everyone's body will have a computer.
I like if, if everyone currently sitting in this room, isn't carrying
around more computing power than existed on earth at the end of World War
two, there's certainly within an order of magnitude, but I'm pretty sure that
yeah, any of the cell phones here has more throughput than all of the computers
that had ever been built combined at that time.
Oh, at that time.
Yeah, totally.
They were still using vacuum tubes back then.
They're still, I mean, there are good reasons to use them for some things.
I know they figured in like Soviet military electronics for a long time
because unlike solid state stuff, they won't be disrupted when a nuke goes off.
Unless the tubes break.
Yes, but this is just like the argument like, no, vinyl just sounds better, man.
Last badly enough to, for the tubes inside a tank to be broken, your electronics
continuing to work.
That that's not your limiting problem.
Completely valid.
Yeah, anyway, I was sort of talking on the drive over here about we're talking
about this one and about people's intuitions about the future being too
limited, but I was just saying, like, I mean, I, okay, I remember the birth
of the internet and then like the whole, you know, maybe everybody will have a
computer in their house to the point where people now have like, you know, a
phone and a Fitbit and a smart watch and a laptop and a PC, maybe, and like
probably, you know, some some kind of computers in their cars and like I've
watched you just machine learning get to the point where now there is a there's
a machine learning program that can draw unique anime girls.
Yes.
The waifu generator, that's not what it's called probably, but I believe the
sign that the site is this waifu is not real.
Yeah, this waifu does not exist.
That's the website in the form post.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, I there's one little generate feet pics.
If you send it texts.
Oh, great.
Yeah.
So like, this is this is the like world that I grew up in.
So like, I'm going to be very difficult to surprise, but like, that's what we
all think you might be surprised.
Exactly.
So this is, I guess, a good intuition pump.
Um, when he was talking about how people don't like imagine things being
weird enough, he said, what, just try to imagine like time going in reverse that
like, maybe you just revert back to being a peasant farmer, except like, maybe
it's a better future, but it's still going to feel about that weird.
I think that variance issue that I brought up with like how far you could
get from a representative human experience is part of the reason that
people's intuition about this is bad.
Like imagine you're in that tribe of 150 people and someone actually
invents the first bow and arrow you've ever heard of.
That's a giant instantaneous leap.
But in that tribe of 150 people, there aren't so many people that you're
statistically going to come up with intuitive leaps like that constantly
scale the population up to 7 billion with millions of people going through
STEM programs constantly and like a ridiculous like meta industries that
exist just to serve the people who try to come up with these insights.
The, the absolute number of insights gets so much larger that we now think of
it as a continuous process, but the intuitions that we have recalibrated for
a world in which the bow and arrow might be the most revolutionary thing
invented during your lifetime.
Yeah.
So that one ended with, I suspect that when people try to visualize the
strangeness of the future, they focus on a single possible change of no
greater magnitude than the largest single change they remember in their own
lifetime.
Yeah.
As opposed to all the various changes that are all going to hit.
I really want to interview, like I should actually probably just talk to
my grandmother, but like it would be just so interesting to get the
perspective of, uh, you know, my grandmother is 87 and just, I just
want to like show her the waifu generator or something.
It'd be like, Hey, guess what we've got.
Do you think she'd be that impressed by a waifu generator?
I don't know.
Maybe not.
My grandfather would have been.
Show her one of those voice deep fakes.
Like Ben Shapiro sings rap god by Eminem.
Yeah, I feel like some of like the technological advances that we have are
just like, they probably just seem like magic though.
Uh, oh, there's a, I'll link to this, but there was this, uh, interesting
video of GPT three, just kind of being good at everything.
And it's kind of freaky.
Uh, but like, I feel like if I showed, you know, my grandmother, you're like,
Hey, look, this, uh, what is it?
An association engine basically can now do all these other things.
You gotta save that video from we have our episode on GPT three.
Oh, we're going to do an episode on that.
We absolutely should.
It's GPT three, man.
I think I think explaining why the waifu generator or GPT three is amazing
to somebody who isn't the least bit tech savvy would be really hard.
I know it's like, there's so much inferential distance, just explaining
why this is important.
You're like, you're showing like, Oh cool.
It helps write paragraphs.
And it's like, but, but look at how, look at, look at how it's doing it.
And then like, so that, that's the magic under the hood, right?
Yeah.
All right.
I think you might have an easier time, uh, showing like the GPT two chess game
or Guerns GPT two composed folk music and explaining why that's cool.
Because GPT two obviously and only works on text, but just by finding a way
to represent folk music as text, you can teach it enough about folk music.
Like by, it'll watch other people do folk music and sort of figure
out what the rules are.
Oh yeah.
Remind me to link this as well.
There's a, uh, what would you call it?
There's like a cyberpunk zine that I subscribe to.
Um, and the person who writes the zine fed it into GPT three and then had GPT
three write a post for him and then analyze the things that it was doing.
Like, so he had little assides in italics that was like, here's where I
definitely thought it was going to get off topic.
But look, here's where it noticed it was getting off topic and then brought
itself back out of that.
It was really interesting.
Yeah.
I, I really want to read that link.
Okay.
Um, we can just make more Scott per slate.
Sarcotics posts with GPT three.
Yeah.
I wouldn't trust them to be accurate.
I want to try that though.
What I want to do, what I really want to try is like, we're basically there.
Like, you know, get every physics paper, get every publication, cause you
know, there's more papers being published than any one human can keep up with
than any team of humans can keep up with.
Just have GPT three read all the paper, all the physics and paper, you know,
all the up through 2000 and then all of them sense and all of them every day.
And then write some new ones and then just check them.
Yeah.
No, I wonder, like that's the same principle as folding at home where they
were having people fold proteins into different unique shapes because
these are all excellent ideas for our GPT three episode.
All right.
Yeah.
Okay.
People hold off, but today we're not talking about GPT three.
We're talking about something much more money.
Wait.
First, our posts for next time.
Right.
Sorry.
They will be anchoring and adjustment and the crackpot offer.
Alrighty.
Uh, now something much more mundane.
Yeah.
I was just going to lead into with that.
So whoever wants to tell us what we're talking about.
Oh, sure.
Um, it's guns.
It's guns.
So, yeah, thanks for pulling the trigger on that.
So I, um, I don't know.
I remember a old Robin Hansen post where he was talking about, um, how do various
people talking about, uh, survivalist strategies and like, you know, how many
calories you got to save up and where you should live to maximize your ability
at clean water and, uh, and grow enough calories or find calories in your
environment and all that.
And he said, look, this is by the time things have gotten that far, we've kind
of already lost the game.
My primary plan for survival is making sure civilization does not entirely collapse.
And that's where I'm putting all my effort.
And for the most part, I agree with him.
I think like extreme survivalism is, uh, is kind of missing, um, the, the goal
for, for it's shooting for a goal that for what's we're shooting for that.
We've already lost the game.
Unless you're just doing it for fun, which like, yeah, so like, but that's
the thing is if you're doing it, you're like, well, now I'm ready.
And it's like, shouldn't you try and like not be ready for this scenario?
Right.
Right.
But there are certain scenarios that sometimes you do have to be ready for as
we found out with the, uh, COVID, uh, catastrophe.
If we can call it a catastrophe, I think it's probably fair to call it a catastrophe.
Got a pandemic.
Okay.
Yeah.
Where, uh, you know, you really should have at least, um, a month's worth,
could maybe three weeks worth of calories stored up, uh, and three weeks worth
of any medication that you are really dependent on because sometimes things
happen in cities, uh, get knocked out of their regular supply chains and it can
take a few weeks to re, um, to reestablish those supply chains.
Could be a natural disaster.
It could be a man made disaster.
It could be a pandemic, but whatever it is, just the ability to know that you
can, uh, live for two to three weeks without having cannibalized your neighbors
is, uh, a great thing.
So, uh, so I remember, uh, because cities are not self-sustaining or sustainable.
I remember this art or, I guess it was an article, but, uh, it was titled
something like, uh, one of the top search, one of the top Google search phrases
was how do you make toilet paper?
How to make your own toilet pad was just like, Oh my God.
Oh my God.
This is what I mean.
