So that you know exactly how much pain is being inflicted when you squish that button.
So you don't use it against like someone who's annoying you in the grocery store.
Yeah, the problem with it is the fact that it's pretty much guaranteed to not be
lethal might lead some people to use it casually.
And it's really not appropriate for those circumstances for casual use.
And I remember watching this training camp.
I think it was military.
I forget. It was like when I was in middle school,
but they were making a bunch of recruits walk through a tent like a maze
that was full of pepper spray.
And when they were coming out just sobbing,
like vomiting, curled up in fetal position, crying for their mom, like.
Let's take the hottest pepper you've ever had and grind it into your nose and
corneas and still not be applying as much Scoville heat as pepper spray has.
OK, yeah, it's it's it's disabling, which is which is the nice thing about it.
I mean, so for the circumstances you're talking about,
like if you're on the go worried about being harassed,
pepper spray is awesome.
Like I the downside of using it in my and you know more about it than I do.
I'm talking like an expert.
But I've been downwind to pepper spray,
which tells me that if you were to fire it, say in the confines of a bathroom stall.
Yeah, you could get hit with it too.
You would get hit with it too.
But you'd be hit with it less.
You'd probably be able to see your way out where they would be blinded and you
know, on the ground trying not to throw up in their face.
So at least like the threats neutralized.
Yeah, exactly.
The threats neutralize and you're uncomfortable.
That's another deal to keep your bones in one piece.
But you were talking about getting a button that makes the shotgun and shotgun
noise tasers are and forgive me that taser and stun gun aren't the same thing.
I'm talking about the one that you press the button and there's an arc of electricity.
That's a stun gun and that's the counterintuitive part to me.
Because the one that you shoot isn't a stun gun.
That one's a taser.
The one that you hold is a stun gun.
And I hate that.
Yeah, it's a taser.
Taser is the is the trademark of the one company that makes the actual pistol
shaped shoot at a distance stun gun where there's a there's a cartridge that's
loaded into the front of the taser that fires these two electrodes.
Right.
And on impact, they release quite a bit of juice.
Taser, it's called that because Taser International.
I'm pretty sure this isn't actually true, but it neatly maps to some Golden Age
science fiction. Taser was supposed by at least one reader in the 80s to be
an acronym for Thomas A. Swift's electric rifle.
That is what the Encyclopedia Britannica says.
Yeah, I love it.
So anyway, the intimidation factor of a stun gun is huge.
They're very loud and they're like, you can get a decent one for under 50 bucks.
And so like between that and the pocket maze, you can again, I don't know if
they sell the stuff at Walgreens anymore, either if I sound just old, but you're
still to get portable, you know, key chain hardware, hardware or Amazon.
I mean, 150 bucks is a lot more than you'll need to spend.
No, 50, 50, not 150.
OK, yeah, I said under 50 pulls it out and is holding it and says,
I'm about to turn it on.
It's really loud.
And you're like, OK, when they turn it on, you still jump.
Yeah, because that's a freaking loud.
It is. It is the sound of parking electricity.
Yeah, it's terrible sounding.
And like like you said, but but thick clothing will turn it off.
But, you know, you could get an exposed hand, you can get an exposed face.
Like, but like you said, too, I'm pointing at Gray, I'm just saying you.
There's a lethality element of that, too.
But between a taser and and excuse me, between a
stun gun and Mace, I think you're is Mace also trademarked?
I'm sure be using pepper spray.
No, Mace, I think it might it might have been a trademark, but it's kind of
genericized now, not not in a legal sense.
But if you say Mace, everyone will know what you're talking about.
It's like Kleenex and tissues like they're the same thing.
But Kleenex is the brand Band-Aid.
Yeah, Band-Aid. Yeah.
Yeah, what is the generic term for Band-Aid?
Adhesive bandage. Yeah.
Or I always remember from invaders and adhesive medical strips.
So I have a question.
We're running low on time, so hopefully this won't take too long.
I was wondering since I am again, the more concerned about the citywide
breakdown of services kind of thing, if I were to band together with the fellow
people in my community here, because I like the place where I live and the people
here are cool, and we like are trying to set up some kind of perimeter defense thing.
What sort of weapon should I have in my basement that I can haul out and put
together and use for that?
Because I'm assuming a shotgun will not work nearly as well for that sort of thing.
So like the smokers are coming and we need to hold them off.
Claymores.
Shotgun's not a bad pick for that.
If you were like, if you were asking me, what do I give a squad of my neighbor?
What weapons plural do I give to a squad of my neighbors who are going to be
manning the checkpoint at the entrance to this gated community?
Then I would say most people should have shotguns and someone who knows how to use
it should probably have a.
I'm not sure or what a good.
There's some monkeys around here, so like you could get some kind of rifle in
like Kalashnikov pattern or AR-15 pattern or a Ruger Mini 14,
something in that general class firing something like a modern military round.
I've heard that the AR-15 is really easy to
maintain and has a very common caliber.
Is that the five?
Yeah, the ammunition it uses is very widely available.
It's more expensive than it probably should be.
But what can you do?
Yeah, it's.
The performance is excellent.
Anybody wanting to fire it should be cautioned that it is unholy damn loud.
It's very high pressure and very high velocity.
And the where a shotgun will have will sort of bellow.
An AR-15 will scream.
You need to wear ear protection.
It's it's an earplugs and earmuffs gun.
That's the other thing that the movies all get wrong.
Guns are fucking loud, way louder than you think they are.
So loud that you're wearing headphones or the noise
cancelling things and the earplugs and you're so like, yeah,
you feel it, you especially big guns,
you feel it culturally through your whole body.
Silencers generally don't make a sound.
It's a loud cough.
Yeah, I think the silencers typically
take 30 decibels off a gunshot, maybe a bit more.
But that's the difference between the sound of almost the sound of a space shuttle
taking off and something else loud, maybe really loud, maybe a bit further away.
Yeah, like if someone in the other room shoots a silenced gun,
you're still going to hear it and you're going to investigate.
Yes, there there's absolutely no way that you're going to miss a silenced gunshot
unless someone has spent enough money that they almost deserve to succeed.
OK, so in John Wick, where they're
where they're walking through like a train station or something,
shooting at each other, one's up on a railing and one's in like a crowd.
Oh, every movie I've ever seen with silencers, it's like, you know,
but they're just walking, kind of taking quiet shots at each other,
trying not to expose themselves.
And it's like, yeah, this would this would be like a thunderclap near everybody.
No one's missing this.
And when you missed the ricochet would also make an extremely obvious noise
that even if you didn't know what it was, would send you running.
Another thing, maybe, is get wrong.
Ricochet, the movie Atomic Blonde is really good, though.
Like in terms of they did a good job showing what fighting like actually looks like.
Like it's a great movie.
It's Joan Wick. It's tight.
Yeah, I remember you like Birds of Prey just because you like the like fun
violence thing. This is a like pretty good fun violence thing.
But also it's just like there's a bit off topic.
But like, you know, in the Marvel movies or whatever,
they'll have somebody my size like petite fighting some big guy and using
like moves that make no sense for their body type.
This is not like punches to the chest or whatever.
Yeah, like this is a character who's using a lot of judo and Aikido.
Sort of moves using a lot of improvised weapons.
Everybody gets beat up realistically.
Like it's not like you get in a fight and then like everybody's hair is perfect
in the next scene and like the wounds are gone.
This is like character has a black eye and like sounds fantastic.
Yeah. And ricochet come like happens.
I don't know.
People get tired.
This is great. There was a scene where I found this like just amazing.
There's a scene where she's fighting with this dude in an apartment and like the
fight keeps going on and at the end, they're dragging themselves across the
floor, swinging at each other, missing, falling in a heap and continuing to drag
themselves back up and just fall over from exhaustion.
Yeah, you've got to be in some pretty amazing shape to keep up like that level
of aerobic fighting for over a minute.
Yeah. Yeah.
The worst offender in the unrealistic movie hits department.
I can't remember what movie it is, but seeing someone land a clenched fist punch
to the forehead, that hand is not going to be useful for anything for anything
for a month if you're lucky.
And this part like, well, first, the other person goes down, which is somewhat
believable because you could probably throw enough, put enough force behind a
punch to concuss someone to the hit like that.
But that hand is not going to be useful for anything else for the rest of that
fight. So don't do it.
I wouldn't even punch.
I mean, the open palm strike to the face, especially since I'm sure it coming
from below can jab you in the jaw really good, or you can use all those.
I've pretty plenty of those.
You want to hit hard parts with soft parts and hard and soft parts with hard
parts if you're trying not actively trying to hurt yourself.
So real quick, the AR 15, like how much would that cost?
How much training is this like a really big commitment for someone who is
dedicated to this thing?
It's decidedly more of a commitment than a shotgun, but less than a handgun.
OK.
I don't know what prices are like now because I haven't been shopping for them.
But when I purchased one
early 2019 due to a due to the Obama years kind of gliding the market pretty badly,
I think that the air 15 that I purchased in early 2019 was
four hundred and fifty dollars new and shipped.
Wow. OK, that's not bad.
Plus thirty dollars to the gun shop for running the background check.
OK. What about like a pawn shops?
You can or like gun shows.
