seeing the world as it is, allowing information in from the world to change who I am on the inside,
right? That updates my model of the world. And then I apply my model of the world and I push
my ideas about the world back onto the world, right? Do you feel the same, that same sort of
duality in a sort of a pull and a push, right? I'm taking information in, I'm seeing the world
as it is without judgment. Then I'm forming a, making a decision based on hypothesis to then
exert control on the world in a particular way. And whilst I'm doing that, I'm sort of blind to
new information about me being wrong about that. I'm just, no, this is the plan I'm going for,
this is the goal I've got here, I'm going for that. Yeah. If you only did, if you only took
in information from the world and you didn't actually act on it, that wouldn't be an organism,
that would just be a lump of clay. If I only act on the world, and I never take in information,
that's not an organism either. That's just a rock rolling downhill. It's got an idea about
where it wants to go and it's just going to go there and it's not, it's just going to run rough
shod over any imperfections in the landscape. But in order to be an organism, there needs to be a
back and forth between. Absolutely. It at least needs both of those things. And I think the,
I've been trying to build models of mechanical systems built out of springs and connected stuff,
right? And in that kind of a system, you can't do both of those things at the same time.
You can't both be sensitive and be an actor, right? You can, you have to sort of pulse back
and forth between them. You'd be, I'm sensitive for a moment. I allow the springs to be deformed
by their experience. And then I take that pressure off and I allow the system to act
back on the world and it has an experience. And then it observes the consequences of that action
and that observation allows it to change its internal structure and then it pushes forward
again, right? And there are, there are many cycles of activity and inactivity that brains
go through on many, many different timescales, right? We can start with the wake sleep timescale
of 24 hours and then lots of other timescales of much finer ones. I have the feeling
the reason that I got sort of excited when I was first listening to these hemisphere differences
is that I have the feeling that if there was an asymmetry between the hemispheres that enabled
one to be, as you say, more about exerting control and the other one more about taking
in information, seeing the world as it is in an unbiased way, then that would perhaps
enable a more of a sort of a continuous flow of taking information and taking action on the
world instead of having to do it in this pulsed way. And if, if the hemisphere is specialized in
that way, then you get a, you get a flow between the organism and the, and the outside world.
And you also, I'm just making enough as I go along, obviously, but there's also a possibility
of one hemisphere observing the other, right? The one is, one, one has an idea and the other
one critiques it. The other one critiques that idea and the other one critiques the critique,
right? And there's a sort of an oscillation that goes back and forth between two hemispheres.
That you should be if it's working well. Yeah. Yeah, that you couldn't do if you only had one,
if you only had one, yes, trying to do both. Yes, correct. Yeah, that's right. I mean, they,
they wouldn't, it wouldn't carve up in the way that the left hemisphere is the only one that's
interested in shaping experience. They're both interested in doing that. But the, the difference
is in their, their allegiance to a certain goal, their values, and, and the, the particular
attention that they can pay. So if you, it's rather like, if you,
I often compare it actually to somebody who's like yourself, who's doing intelligent scientific
research, and you, you can't sit down and do, you know, a thousand different comparisons in the way
that a statistical package can do in the computer. So you, you put all this data into the computer,
the computer itself has no idea what this data refers to. It could refer to
mentally ill people, or it could refer to the creation of a sludge farm or whatever. It's
not interested. And so it performs procedures on it very, very quickly. But at the end, it produces
a result, which again, it doesn't understand. And the right hemisphere takes that back and
reincorporates it into what it already has understood. And that enriches its understanding
and makes it the best, in the best possible position to make the important next steps to
make the decisions about what we do and where we go. The problem is that when the left hemisphere
with its limited knowledge and limited intelligence, it has limits on both compared with the right
hemisphere decides this is what we need to do. It has a very small repertoire, which is we get this,
we get more of that. We enjoy having power over this and exerting influence on that and getting
this stuff to eat and so on. So it's exactly the way in which if you, if you've lost really all
other values, other than those of getting and grabbing and becoming rich, you would function.
So it's not just that it's the one that should be functioning, it isn't really.
In terms of exerting its influence on what we do, it's the one that
has that value and gathers data on it and processes that data. But then it's always
important that that process doesn't stop there. Now, what I feel happens in the modern,
if one can dignify it with the word philosophical, political, social media medium,
is that it goes through this process where what is extremely subtly involved with its context,
with embodiment, with experience, with, you know, it's taken and abstracted out of everything that
will give it meaning, put into categories. And then that seems to be the end of the process.
But it's not, it's a process that needs to be gone through, but very much transcended.
Mm, nice. So I've been spending some time
thinking about the societal impact of the idea of survival of the fittest.
Okay. And some of what you said there resonated with me a bit about what happens when the left
hemisphere is a bit out of control. So that if one hemisphere is expert at getting and
grabbing and also expert at judging and comparing, but its value system is very simplistic,
its value system is just one of these is best, right? I'm just going to do the one that's best,
right? That's the model that we have of evolution by natural selection and survival of the fittest.
It's like, it's all very, very simple. We just need to figure out which thing is best,
right? What do you mean best? I don't know, survival is best, right? That's it. That's all
there is to it. There's nothing else to think about here, right? So if instead there's a more,
let's begin with nuanced view of the world where understanding of what's important and why is much
more fluid and much more dynamic and much more integrated and much more connected to a depth
of experience and a wealth of values which are multidimensional and not single dimensional.
Then, you know, that's a different way of thinking, a different emphasis and
inferences you say in the difference between the hemispheres. But it's also a different way of
behaving in the world, right? When you think, well, everything is a competition, everything is
about finding the best, everything is about optimizing. It's all very simple, just maximize
it, maximize what, you know, let's just maximize it. If you really thought about what are you
trying to maximize, that doesn't matter. We're maximizing it, right? Exactly. Exactly. And that's,
you know, you can see how that attitude in the world creates this, you know,
discompassion and an attitude of exploitation towards one another that's the root of all of our
problems in the world, right? It logically follows from the need to sustain a system
in which you're maximizing profit and profit is money, effectively. So the value is that of power
and utility. And I've only really come to realize in the last 10 years how important values are,
because I think an awful lot of people think values are a sort of rather airy-fairy thing
that is sort of painted on at the end of, you know, you've got your model, and you sort of paint
a bit of values in there, and it might skew things a little bit. But what values you have
begins to affect the process from the very, very start, because it affects what you're
attending to and why. Because if your value is grabbing, then you pay this very disembodied,
narrowly targeted, committed, focused attention to details that are isolated and taken out of
context, and all the nuance and all the implied implicit meaning is lost, then you really have
a different world. You are now creating a different world, one that has consequences outside for
everyone else, but also your own world, your belief about what kind of a world you live in.
We don't examine this. I mean, I think scientists particularly hardly examine what the values are,
and I'm not sort of talking in some airy-fairy way about, you know,
now fashionable political values, and I'm not saying they should have a mission statement
saying that this is not what I'm talking about. I think what actually matters in this world,
and I think that there's a sort of, I follow Max Schaler, the German phenomenological philosopher
who had this sort of four-tier idea of a pyramid of values with just utility and pleasure at the
bottom, and then above them coming what he called lebensverter, the values of life, which are things
like courage, fidelity, magnanimity, generosity, and all things that I think we could do with a
little bit more of these days, then above them comes an allegiance to beauty, goodness, and truth,
and they're all in the doldrums nowadays as well. And finally, there comes at the top,
Das Heilige, the holy. Well, now a lot of people nowadays would just dismiss that out of hand.
I happen to think it's a very important element in the picture, but however you look at it,
this pyramid has been inverted so that at the bottom there are these airy-fairy things like
the holy, the beautiful, the goodness, and true, which you can more or less forget about,
because really they're only there to help you grab and get. This is chaos, and this produces a
dysfunctional society, projects that are misconceived, and a way of attending and being in the world,
which is the important thing you've said this to, that changes who we are, what we experience,
and what the world is like. I couldn't agree with that. Fantastic, yes. They're not a
fringe thing. They are at the core. The scientific ideal is objectivity, which is another way of
saying there are no values here. We're not exactly talking about anything. I'm just objectively saying
this is bigger than that. That is a value judgment, of course.
It's already chosen what you were attending to, right?
Exactly, exactly, and how you will attend to it, yes, so that you will only see certain things.
We put very simply, when science, quite naturally, this is how it is now thought to progress,
takes all values out and takes out, will not hear, speak of any kind of directional
teleological principles. It then solemnly looks at what it has found and says,
there are no values and there's no purpose, so it's all a meaningless mess. I've spent 30, 40 years
straying a little towards the idea that what happened if we accepted that it's not entirely
absurd that these things could exist and actually make a huge difference. So how we see biology,
life, society, what a human being is, and how we relate to the cosmos.
So anyway, we've gone away from what you were talking about, probably, Michael, but...
No, this is right in the center of what's important.
Yeah, that's really, that notion that the scientific way of looking at the world is
entirely objective and prides itself on being, so without acknowledging that we have to pick a
particular question, pick which things we attended to, pick which... You can objectively say whether
one thing is bigger than another, but you can't say whether it's better than another.
And so it gets bottomed out in really crude utilitarian ways. And so that's really interesting
to draw that together with your understanding of that disparity between the hemispheres and the
inductive, deductive way of thinking about reasoning and new ways of thinking about evolutionary
processes, right? If you think of evolutionary processes as purely maximizing survival and
reproduction, then it ends up not explaining anything about the complex beauty that we actually
wanted to explain about organisms. Yes, and it causes a mystery, because the more complex,
the more conscious, the more interesting and responsive the creature becomes,
the more it's chances of long survival diminish. I mean, we are not very good examples,
not because we do terrible things to ourselves, but even left alone, we have a lifespan of 70 years,
and a tree has some of them have a lifespan of 1000 years, and there is an actinobacterium at
the floor of the ocean, examples of which have survived a million years. They're doing very,
very well at reproducing and surviving, but there's more to this story than that.
If you wanted to maximize reproductive rate, we're not doing that either.
Not doing that? No, no. So, yes, I think these things need to be brought into the pictures
in order to help us see what it is we're looking at. Firstly, I don't know, what do you think,
Michael? Michael thinks it's time to go. Yeah, this is fascinating, and we need to start this up
separately because there's a lot to be said on this. So, could I propose that we wrap up for
today and try again? Absolutely. Yes, please. Fantastic. Okay. Thanks very much, gentlemen.
Very good. Nice to meet you, Andy. Very nice to meet you too, Richard, and good to see you again,
and we'll compare our diaries. Absolutely. All right, see you guys soon. Okay, see you. Bye.
