but I think they're incredibly plastic models. And even in adulthood with sensory augmentation
and sensory, you know, when they make, you've seen this stuff, when they give people a prosthetic
limb where the wrist goes all the way around, right? They find out that when people go to use it,
they do it that way. Well, you know, the way to touch a coffee cup normally, you know,
whatever. But this thing, yeah, they'll just spin the wrist, you know, a way that your wrist
would normally never go. And, yeah, that's why they can learn to do these things. So, plasticity.
So there's something. It can't be that it's figuring everything out from scratch with no
assumptions in each lifetime. But it also has to be incredibly flexible, as you say.
So, it feels to me like it needs to be a sort of not an answer, but an inductive bias.
No, not an inductive bias, but a meta inductive bias. Not a meta inductive bias and so on,
right? But it's a sort of, it's a really, really deep way of learning how to learn,
how to learn, how to learn, how to learn, that unfolds, you know, as you say, in the normal
conditions, it unfolds the same way. But that it has incredible flexibility as well.
And there are such things as instincts, which are apparently fully formed and operate from
the word go without any need to sort of find out, as it were, that this is what I need to do.
So that's, it's not a, not even, I mean, clearly we're not blank slates, but not even
behaviorally blank slates. So, surely it's a very mixed picture in which some things are
unquestioned and automatic from a very early age and other things must be
learned and adapted to, surely. But the source, where's the source of the,
where's the special source? Where's the source of the, of the bias, right? When you think about
reasoning, deduction and induction in an abstract way, in an algorithmic, logical way,
that's not connected to any particular machinery for implementing it,
then induction seems very mysterious. It's like, why on earth should I prefer the hypothesis that
all those ones are going to be the same color over the hypothesis that all of those ones are
going to be the same color until five o'clock and then they change, right? Why, why, why the
preference for one kind of hypothesis over another? But when you think about the fact that
the inference machinery, deductive and inductive, is machinery in the, in the broad sense.
And what you're asking a system to do is not to remember in a sort of
photographic way, particular instances from the past and recall them, but that you are
deforming that machinery by its experience. That intrinsically gives you some things that the
machinery can do naturally and other things that the machinery can't do naturally. And it gives
you some things which are sort of natural intermediates, sort of natural interpolations
and extrapolations is one example. But even in high dimensional spaces, there are,
there are intermediates that are easy to do with this kind of machinery and intermediates that aren't.
And it's only when we have this idea of logic being substrate independent and divorced from
the implementational machinery, it seems all very mysterious. But when you recognize that,
but whatever we're going to build, it has to be built through a growth process, for example.
And that's, if we're going to do it that way, then there's certain kinds of
hypotheses about what an adaptive phenotype would be that are more likely than others.
And if you've tried this and you've tried that and you need something in between,
as the situation you've never seen before, then there are going to be some in-betweens
which are natural for a developmental process and some in-betweens which are not.
And that's, it's, I guess my headline there is just it's
believing that inference is substrate independent that makes it mysterious.
Yeah. I want to go back for a second to this thing that Ian just said about the
instincts, the inborn instincts. And Aaron Sloman has been really pushing this
for a while, this idea of, you know, we got these birds that are born making these crazy
complicated nests and spider webs and so on. And so people are very sort of taken with this.
Well, how does it know to build a specific spider web? But actually those behaviors in
three-dimensional space are very analogous to, if you're wondering how the spider knows to
build a spider web, it's exactly the same question as how it knew to build a spider in the first
place. I mean, the genome no more encodes the, the genome no more directly encodes the architecture
of the spider web of the bird's nest than it did of the bird or the spider, right? You got exactly
the same thing. It's just, it's just your, you know, your behavior in morpho space as opposed
to behavior in three-dimensional space. But in all of these cases, it's kind of the same thing.
You've got these inborn, in fact, Giovanni Pazzullo and I talked about
developmental, like fixed developmental programs of the kind that you guys were just talking about
that are kind of like, these are the more, you know, sort of assumed things. They are basically
instincts of this, of the cellular collective intelligence. And yeah, it can learn to do some
other stuff, but it has some built-in building blocks that are, that are kind of very robust and,
and, and some of them are hard to overcome and some of them are not. Yeah. And, and, and, and, yeah.
You know, I was just going to say, that's good what you say. And it leads us to,
will it lead me not to a sort of a, an answer to a question. So I see, so it's not really any
different from how the spider's structure comes about. But then this is a huge question. So how
does the, the spider's structure come about? How do the rather intimate three-dimensional
structures, which are so different in every little creature, how, where are they stored? How
are they, where are they found? Where is this enormously complex three-dimensional information
to be found? And behaviors are even more complex because they are, they're, they're, they're in
four dimensions. There are things that occur over time in a certain order and in a certain
geographical space. So once one gets to this level, it seems that it's almost perverse not to say
there is some element here that is either guiding or, or shaping or directing. But, but I personally
don't know what the answer to that thing is. And perhaps you are getting closer to answering that
thing like I do. Yeah. Well, this issue, so people ask this all the time, right? So, so, so where is
the, where is the pattern stored? So, so I think, I think two things, two interesting things about
it. One, one is that the standard, where does it come from, right? So there's two questions. Where
is it stored and where does it come from? The question of where it comes from is also super
interesting because traditionally, people will say, well, evolution, you know, selection forces,
right? So years of, you know, eons of selection to be a good frog gives you, you know, gives you
a frog. But it turns out that actually those exact same cells can do something quite different
that that there was never selection for, you know, kinematic cell for application in, in,
in Xenobots has never been selection for that. This is just something that, that, that they can do
without, without any evidence of, of there being pressure to evolve it. So you get to this, you
get to the same question that I think people who studied mathematics back in the classic,
you know, great days and before that was some of these things. Where do, you know, where do
these laws of math of physics of computation, where do they live? Because things like the
distribution of primes and the, you know, the various interesting properties of, of logic tables
and the, the facts of, of number theory and all that, they don't, they don't depend on the physical,
the, you know, the properties of the physical world, right? The physical facts could have been
different. All those things would be the same. And I think that the, the, the, whatever, whatever
that platonic space is, where these things sort of reside, evolution is really good at exploiting
them. So, you know, a really simplistic way of thinking about it is like, if you, if, if, if,
if you were trying to evolve a triangle, right, you would have to evolve the first two angles,
but you don't need to evolve the third angle, you get that for free. And it's kind of amazing to
think, well, where, how, why do you, like, how can you, as a, as a search process, how can you
save all that time searching for that third angle? It's a free gift from, you know, from, from physics
or, or math or, or somewhere. And it leads to the same question of where is the form encoded.
I've got this, this thing that I always show my students when we talk about this stuff, it's a
Galton board, right? So it's this vertical board, you get a bunch of nails banged into it, and you
take a, you know, a ball of marbles and you sort of dump it on the top and the marbles go every
which way. And then at the end, if you've got enough marbles, you get this beautiful bell curve,
right? So you say, all right, so, so, so, so, so, so where is this, this pattern encoded,
right? And, you know, it's not in the wood and it's not in the distribution of the nails. It's a,
it's kind of a free gift from, from, from calculus or something. And I think that's what biology is.
So I think you've got three inputs, right? I think you've got the, you've got the genetics,
you've got the environment, in some cases, it's instructive, you know, turtle temperature,
determined sex and all that. But also you've got this, but, but you've got a third thing, which
is neither the specificity is neither in the environment nor in the genome. It's this incredible
storehouse of these, these free lunches that you get from, from, from physics, from math, from,
from, you know, computer science or whatever else. And I think evolution exploits them heavily in,
in everything it does. Which is far from satisfying, of course, because, because you said, well,
where are we going to, where is all this stuff, right? But I think we have to, I think what we're
learning is that we have to get beyond the idea that it all has to be tangible and it all has to
be, well, there it is. I, you know, I've sort of got my, my fingers on it. It doesn't all, I don't
think it all works like that. No, but if it's not tangible, what are we, what are we saying? What are
we proposing? Well, I think, I think the mathematicians have been wrestling with this for thousands of
years, right? When you, you know, as mathematics discovered or invented, if it's discovered,
which I think it is, you know, as an amateur, right? Then, then, then you've got this really
fundamental question that transcends biology and evolution, everything else, which is what,
what, what play, you know, what, what space are you exploring when you, when you discover these
things, you know? But isn't that different? Because you can explore ideas in space mentally.
That's fine. But we're talking about a situation where an apparently
simple body of cells is able to create incredibly complex structures with,
with the right types of cells in the right place, with the right connections in the right order,
so that you get the architecture, the very fine architecture of a brain or of the cerebellum.
And I have no clue, and I don't know anybody who has any clue where, where the map for this is,
if you see what I mean, I mean, people gesture towards the DNA sequence. But as we know, there's,
there's nothing like enough information in that to, to give this high level of very detailed,
formal information. And I think it's an interesting question. Well, I think, I think now we're back
to where this conversation started with, which is the idea that if we assume that
intelligent brains are the only things that are able to explore that space,
then we're at an impasse. But I actually think that kind of like what Dennett calls competence
without comprehension, I think you can explore that space without human level understanding
of what you're doing. I think evolution as a non zero, but certainly not human level process,
that's exactly what it's doing. It's, it's searching that space. And the good news, apparently,
is that that space has some kind of a structure to it. Otherwise, you couldn't really search it very
well. So in my head, and this is all, this is all, you know, completely like, you know, sort of
hypothetical and, and of course, controversial, but in my head, you could imagine, you know,
how people make a map of mathematics. So they make this map, you know, and then the entomology's over
here, and then next to it, there's something else that's connected in some way. And then there's
number theory. And I feel like there is a structure like that to the space. So once you've discovered
once you've discovered how to make simple Archimedean machines of a certain type,
the other types are right there next to it. It's not, you know, it's not that hard to sort of,
right. So you've got a lever, well, you can also make this other thing that's sort of close.
And, and when you, when you've the evolutionarily discovered an voltage gated ion channel,
which is a transistor, basically, right, then you can have a couple of them, and then you can
make a logic gate. And if you make a certain kind of logic gate, then you can make many other things.
And, you know, I sort of just in my head, I kind of visualize that there's this like,
space of these, of these free lunches, so to speak, that evolution can, you know,
when you make the right machine. So if you don't have the right machine, you can't make use of it.
But if you make the right machine, suddenly, oh, look, you know, the laws of adhesion now,
right, right. So, so, so, so look, if you, if you discover that you can have two different
proteins, that one is very sticky, one is not so sticky, right. When you have a bunch of balls
that have these proteins on them, and you shake, you shake them at an earn, what you end up with
is all the sticky ones are in the middle, and they're surrounded by the less sticky ones on top.
You didn't have to tell all of them where to go. You see, you get that for free. All you had to do
was come up with the idea of adhesion. That's it. Everything else is kind of, who told them to be
on the outside, right. So, you know, I feel like there's a space, which is the same space that
the mathematicians are going through. And I think evolution can, can make use of that stuff.
It seems that we can find to a rather, I accept what you say about the sticky and the non sticky
and so on. But these examples are, are so simple that it's not necessarily obvious that by putting
together a lot of such things, you will end up with information on a complex structure.
We know complexity brings in its own problems. It's not just a matter of complicating a number
of small ones. And these, these situations, these systems are complex systems. So anyway,
it's very interesting. I, I, well, I think anyway, it encourages us to think, I don't know that
there may be more information of a kind we don't understand us haven't yet grasped how to use it.
Man, I think one of the simplest things that arises early on is a negative feedback loop,
which gives you a kind of little homeostatic, right, a little, a little something, something
that's the, you know, the most basic kind of goal directedness is, you know, some kind of little
homeostatic thing. And what we've been looking at for several years now is the process of scaling.
How do you get from little tiny things that only care about one variable, one scalar,
you know, metabolic rate or something? And how do you add them up into a network that's able to now
care about much bigger things like, Hey, do we have the right shape? Right. So not only,
so, so what happens apparently is that not only do you scale up the kinds of things that a collective
can care about, but it switches actually problem spaces. So whereas before you were only trying
to optimize things, and let's say metabolic space or transcriptional space, the collective now
has these gigantic goals like, Hey, make a hand with five fingers. And so that's, that's a goal
and completely that's a navigational task in a completely different space. So I think, you know,
I think, I think that's where the magic is going to lie that you're talking about. How do we get
from these incredibly simple mechanisms? And I think the trick is, I mean, other people, what
other people would say is, look, it's emergence as in, for example, touring patterns, right? Like
you can, you can encode a very simple chemical signal and you get some cool stuff, you get spots
and stripes and somites and things like that. And that's fine. And that all of that does happen.
But I think the real secret sauce is in the goal directed sits in the feedback. It's in the fact
that you start with little tiny things that care about meaning exert energy to obtain,
to navigate to a region of state space that, you know, little tiny goals. And then there's a
scale up process. And I think, you know, I think we're starting to make some, some headway in that
scale up process. But then of course, you know, which is also the, you know, that's also the,
the, the kind of the holy grail of neuroscience, right? You've got these neurons, we know their
cells, we know they care about certain things. But the collective is, you know, cares about
very different things, right? Yes, exactly. Yes, that was what I was alluding to really. But
anyway, yes. So in, in the way in which, let's say an organism interacts with the physical world,
Ian talks quite a bit about one hemisphere being interested in exerting control over the world.
And relatively, the other hemisphere being interested in seeing the world as it is,
do I paraphrase okay, so far, Ian? No, that's reasonable. Yes. And there's a, there's a,
there's a back and forth there that if you're going to exert control over the world, you sort of need
to be, well, let's just say forceful to start with, in a way that is mutually exclusive with
simultaneously being sensitive to the world. Like, I'm going to exert a force on the world,
I'm going to change the world. And whilst I'm doing that, I'm not really very sensitive to
how the world is right now, because I'm changing it, right? And then there's, there's another thing
sort of, which is more sort of observational, more sort of accepting the world as it is,
