attention is. So it seems that from a neuroscientific perspective, some of those important kind of
constructs that we use in everyday decision-making attention are not unified single phenomenon,
but are things that executive control is another one of them, but are really
things that emerge in a particular kind of situation depending on the layout of the action
possibilities. And so one important distinction that Cissek makes is that between action
specification and action selection. So you see here that this is a kind of general framework
that he's having. And you see that if we talk about action selection, there's a lot of projecting
to the base of ganglion. And as we talk about action specification, there is more cortical
arrows that are being drawn. And in his recent work, Cissek talks about this as within behavior
and between behavior selection. So you might think like, oh, of all the things that I can do,
there is the selection between different kind of behaviors. And then in the classical example
of lifting the cup, that's a question of action specification. And those processes happen in
parallel. That's not a kind of sequential model. But once you decide to lift the cup,
the specification is something that's left. That there's a different kind of process. And typically,
we have more executive control over the kind of selection process and less of the specification.
There's not much use in controlling actively how to grasp the cup. I just want to grasp the cup.
And so the examples he's giving are related to the difference between pointing and grasping,
for example, these are macaque studies. So choosing between pointing and grasping is action
selection. Specifying where to point is action specification. And so,
normally, there seem to be very different mechanisms for these different kind of
forms of selection. I mean, you might not even call the second one decision making.
And so, at least intuitively from this perspective, the fact that we engage with
nowadays with much of our environment in a kind of pointing kind of way,
makes it that we make very, very relevant behavioral decisions. Am I going to go on
Facebook or am I going to write the paper with the swipe of a finger or the point? So we use the
kind of, from that kind of perspective, we use the kind of action specification mechanisms for
actually things that intuitively we would like to be forms of action selection and things to be
deliberate. So I think there's also a big possibility to combine this more and more
neuroscientific angle with the kind of issues on the attention economy. And I think the kind
of work on affordance competition is very much in key with an activism. And the crucial bit here
is that from this perspective, affordances, we don't have just like a whole row of affordances
or so, but this kind of hierarchical organization within them. Some of them are specifications,
some of them are selection and nested within each other. And they, each of them, have different
forms of cognitive control associated with them. So here we have a different kind of
mismatch, I guess, between the technologies and environment and the anthropology that we are,
that we have. And this is a mismatch between the structure of digital environments and the
structure of behavior or what you might call the affordance competition. And of course,
this is not something this kind of affordance competition hierarchies, not something that's
fixed. It might be very much dependent on development as well. But I think it also gives a set of
tools to rethink about our relationship with digital technologies. And in much of the more,
also the more post-phenomenological literature on philosophy of technology and attention,
there's really not much interesting interest in cognitive science. And I think an activism really
has a good position here to also take these insights from cognitive science to the table
and still have a robust story about what we want to achieve autonomy and agency. So to wrap up,
so I think an activism is really in a strong position to formulate this realistic anthropology
for the attention economy. And this is not a talk that says it has been done. I have a paper on this,
but this is really, this is where my thinking, how it came from thinking about affordances
in this more towards this more attention economy topics. And I think both neuroscientifically,
as in terms of the central concepts of an activism, there's a really, really good position to pursue
this kind of project. So this is where I am at the moment. And I would look forward to discuss it with
you. Thank you. That's great. Thank you. Thank you very much. So we, we have at least one of the
voice here in the live session with us. And I think we may yet be joined by one or two other
latecomers, but I guess we'll see if they show. So I obviously, as ever, have many comments and
questions, but I will also offer the first response to the non-meric member of the discussion.
Is there anything you want to say? Yeah. Thanks very much, Jelle. It's interesting to see how
considerations from the strong physicalist realist stance of ecological psychology,
the still emerging and not yet defined field of an activism. And social technical considerations
are coming together. I believe that there's an awful lot of unsteadyness in the conceptual
formulations that we're using here, which is one of the reasons that we have these ENSO seminars,
of course. But I want to draw, I want to come to your use of the term anthropology.
I object. Anthropology, of course, as a discipline has a shameful history of voyeuristic habits of
privileged European males going to people who are culturally distant and interpreting them from
within their own Christian, Eurocentric cultural point of view. Now, anthropology as a discipline
has been through an awful, awful lot. And it tries to resist strongly positivist formulations to the
extent that it aspires to generalize to something called the Anthropos, which is something in
construction, but not necessarily finished. The use of the term anthropology must be done
then in a cautious manner when it engages with scientific discourse. Now, you introduced
a stonking cultural construct, a European cultural construct, the psychological subject
driven by attention with executive control and decision making. And you can put perception
in there as well. And there you've got a something that we have built here in the West
on a largely Platonist and Christian foundation have constructed methodologically. So when it
comes to attention, for example, nobody ever really anymore asks what is attention or does
attention exist? They ask how do we operationalize attention? And you have to ask the same thing
about executive control and decision making, not do they exist? But how do we operationalize them?
Because if you get too positivist and realist about those things, they go away.
So I'm worried about your realistic anthropology. I think what you're doing by engaging with the
psychological subject in this way, I don't think you can use anthropology. I want to say
that's not appropriate. I'm coming from a position of extreme skepticism with respect
to scientific psychology. So please excuse that. I don't expect everyone to share that.
But I do think the nature of scientific current scientific practices and the aspirations of
a field called anthropology, they there's a great tension there. So that's what I want to draw your
attention to. So I should confess, I wasn't completely aware of these tensions when I was
using the concept of anthropology. I think, and here I'm also a bit, I mean,
all of those concepts are troubled, right? I mean, so what is implicit in this literature,
you might think is a picture of human nature. But human nature is just as troubled as anthropology,
I think. For me, at least, I went for anthropology as a kind of lighter notion than human nature.
But it's a picture of how people make sense of the world, how they arrive at decisions,
how they attend, what kind of control they have over their environment. And that picture you can
distill from skin is beyond freedom of dignity. And then you have a picture in which we're enslaved
by our environments. And the picture you can get from, it's implicit in all the works on the
attention economy, there is, even if they're pointing outside, even if they're pointing to
even like Zuboff writes about surveillance capitalism, it's not about human psychology,
but it's about the capitalist system. But it all operates with a particular kind of,
either a deliberating agent or a behavioristic agent or something like that. So I want to
zoom in on those kind of implicit commitments that are made. And I think there,
and activism similarly has a position of what it is to be a sense making agent
that comes along with its own kind of vulnerabilities. And getting those vulnerabilities
into view requires you to somehow make commitments about what it is.
Yeah, but when you say the person, I think you're thinking of people like you. I don't think you're
thinking of this person. This is a person from Tierra del Fuego, one of the crowd who was genocided
at the start of the 20th century. He met anthropologists, they didn't understand him.
People of that tribe even met Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin regarded them as animals,
which is funny because Charles Darwin went down to tell us all that were animals, which is a bit
odd. But you can see from his reaction, he didn't understand them and they had no common basis.
Would you say that any account of decision making, executive control, and attention would apply to
this person as well as to someone who was brought up within a capitalist western heavily industrialized
society? And if not, then it's not anthropology really. It's building something within the,
I'm going to say it, neoliberal and secular capitalist order.
So,
I mean, the story represents about the role of technology on everyday life is,
yes, it's the role of technology on everyday western life. I mean, that's clear.
For people like you and me.
That's a story I can't tell because that's a story I have most experience with. I haven't done
research in those kind of areas. Well, I'm very unfair here. I'm sorry. The anthropology I
describe has much larger aspirations. I won't be squashed into any particular western viewpoint,
obviously. But there's a similar tension, isn't there, between the strongly realist commitments
of affordance layouts, as described in the Gibsonian framework, and the less secure
commitments to the person, body, agent, individual that arise within an activism. So,
as I said, the field is not yet established. The persistent tension between ecological and
inactive approaches, which some people don't see as a tension, I absolutely do. But it extends all
the way out then. Well, I think, as well, sorry, Yellow, as I see it, there is a, I mean,
when Yellow introduced the term, he introduced it in the plural, right? There are multiple
anthropologies. That's right, yeah. And as such, there is sort of an inherent recognition of the
bandedness of any of these, and the limitations of any of these, rather than sort of placing one
as sort of superior or more encompassing than the other, but rather the anthropology is inherent in,
it's the implicit foundation in which any given description of a specific behavior or cognitive
system or cognitive function is presented. Maybe just to briefly follow up, I think
these are anthropologies in positions in literature, right? So they're implicit
in positions in the literature, rather than they're in persons, right? So when I meant realistic,
I didn't mean so. This is, it's realistic in the sense that it's more
closer to real life, but not realistic in the sense like this is what happens in person.
This is, no, in that sense, it's a more kind of looking at these positions in the literature
and deriving from them the kind of implicit commitments they make to a particular kind of
picture of human nature. And that's indeed, that's a pluralistic concept without any commitments,
from my side at least, about how that applies to even us in the West and let alone to any
and to kind of any human or so. So it's something that's kind of a generalistic
claim. So I don't think I want to go there. We need to go there.
That's great. So I see Erika's joined in. I know Erika has a question as well. So I'll pass on
to you there. Hey, hey, can you hear me? Yeah. Hi, Jelle. Thanks. It was very interesting. I knew
already part of the story, of course, and it's good to hear you telling it here. I have a question.
You started out talking about technological mediation and post phenomenology. But then you
end up with your positive story, which is the field of affordances, in which the field of affordances
plays an important role. So I was wondering, what in the end does this talk about post phenomenology
and technological mediation do for you as work, doesn't do any work? Or is it just an idle wheel
in the paper that you just gave? And if not, then how will you avoid creating a dichotomy between
technological affordances and all the affordances of this aspect of the environment, which is my
hand, and that can also do many things, just like an iPhone can. Yeah. I think avoiding this dichotomy
is really, really important. And so you might think about the affordances of VR or so. And that's
like, no, then the whole environment becomes digital in a sense, and you duplicate the story.
But what we encounter here is I think kind of hybridity, where at once I'm sitting reading a
book, and next to me is a phone, which is a simple object, visually not much more complicated than
the book. But that allows me to enter completely new domain, which at least intuitively seems to me
a completely new domain in the sense that one, the layout of action possibilities there is different
to the kind of things that I can do is so much more than I can do here and now
in a non-digital environment. So, yeah, avoiding that dichotomy is
important. And therefore, it all needs to kind of be tied back to somehow like, I think, one field
of affordances that somehow, in whether you pick up your phone or not, kind of more changes,
changes shape. And that's the question about how to think about it.
And I guess this is probably where post phenomenology can offer some insight, exactly how
this field of affordances as a kind of construct, I think it's needed to keep the kind of unity
and to avoid the kind of dualism that you were sketching. But then still, how do the technologies
in the environment, which are not themselves the affordances, but that allows you to see
through something into new affordances, how does that kind of mediation process of intentionality
work? And I think there are some concepts from post phenomenology could help. And I haven't,
in the kind of more, in either the inactive or the ecological psychology literature,
found any kind of good starting points, except for, I think, what is the common ground for both
inactivism and post phenomenology, namely the kind of Heidegger-Meller-Punty kind of descriptions
of hammers and canes. But that's a two basic kind of example to pursue further.
Okay, thanks for that to be continued.
Okay, so I'm just keeping a high five on the channel on YouTube. But I do want to throw out
a question of my own, which is going to be not terribly well formed. But it's a question about
something that felt not terribly well formed. So I'm hoping that there's some kind of resonance
there. And that was the concept of the agent that's in play here, because you essentially,
back to an extent, was your notion of these multiple anthropologies as well, what kind of
agent are we talking about? And it feels to me that there are, I guess, it wasn't clear what moves
me from one being one kind of agent to another under different circumstances, because there are
certainly times when, you know, someone might ask me, well, what did you watch on the television
yesterday? I said, wow, I watched about 45 minutes of the Netflix menu. And, you know, that was it.
And then there are other times in which I barely see the Netflix menu, because I'm flicking
straight through to what it is I'm going to. And the, the Netflix menu is obviously designed
to encourage some sort, you know, some aspects of that, and less others. But,
but my level of commitment, and obviously that, you know, just have vast the sea of potential
options is, you know, plays a role, it makes it very difficult to distinguish, well, what
are the difference between them? What do I care about? And, and that is, there's an important
external, not wanting to get into boundary questions, but there's an important environmental,
I guess, discussion about where my desires are, and how I recognize what I want.
But I guess I didn't even really see much of a hint towards the, well, how, where do those
desires come from? Or how are they playing a role in, in structuring that feel of affordances?
Yeah, I'm just wondering, what literature do you want to point to and say, well,
we'll use them for the moment, and then we'll figure it out the details as we go.
Yeah. No, great. Yeah.
So I think the two things here are, so if you read the more ecological psychology literature on
attention, their attention is always understood, attention and distraction are understood relative
to a task. And, I mean, in psychology, that kind of makes sense, right? Because you give people
a task, but in everyday life, that's complicated. And I guess the task is already an advance over
having a goal, right? Because a goal is something in your head, and then how does it shape your
openness to affordances, not quite clear. But I think something like a behavior setting also
could be something in the right direction, where sometimes we have the right kind of configuration
with our environment, where it is clear what the purpose of the situation is.
I'm tired. I deserve to watch the new episode of The Crown. I know this is the right kind of series,
