and then I've watched it before. So this is what I'm going to do. And that's a kind of,
yeah, engagement with technology, which is then, I think, not detrimental in any sense,
and just leads you to where you want to go. And that's fine. And so I guess the kind of,
the kind of really deep distraction kind of moments are the fact, the moment where there's not
really a task, or where task shifting is easier than engaging with a task. So sometimes, I mean,
at least personally for me, it's like when writing a paper that's a bit stuck,
every progress you try to make in the paper, one sentence later, the task has somehow switched to
social media, to checking your mail or whatever. So it's easier to switch tasks than to make progress
on one particular. And of course, yeah, and then the notion of task has its own complexities,
and the notion of behavior settings as well. But I guess those would be two kind of stabilizers
of everyday actions that could be made appropriate for such a kind of way of thinking,
I think, without bringing too much trouble. Okay, thanks. Yeah, I mean, I guess it gets at the
how do affordances compete. The notion of the importance of competition actually captures
some nice aspects of the dynamics, I think, but it becomes that as well. Well, what are the mechanics,
I guess, of competition? How are they actually getting it? Yeah, and then, I mean, the wrong
way to pursue that would be like, okay, do affordances compete in the head in my neural system,
or do they compete in the world, right? I mean, no, it's got to be a more relational story where
there's only one competition process that is surely aided by the kind of neural dynamics that's
going on competitive dynamics, but also by the layout of the world and the setting and the
practice and part of somehow combining those in without completely losing the cognitive science,
I think that would be a miss. And that's what you find in some of the more post phenomenology
literature, and also not going completely neuro predictionistic, where in the end,
everything happens in the brain. I think that's from this perspective to the challenge.
Fred is waving in his camera here, so I presume that's a...
Yeah, it's a... marrying ecological concepts and inactive concepts is always something of a
challenge. Sense making is an interesting term that sort of does service in both worlds sometimes,
except that in the ecological framework, it's always a sense making of an agent.
And in action introduced the very interesting formal device of participatory sense making,
which destroys the notion of a rarefied individualist experience. So one could expect two people
sense making together to have an attire if we're going to use affordance language to have a different
topology of affordances, which shifts from a resolutely individualist and indeed neurocentric
view to a much less well specified place. I think it's a very interesting formal intervention
from sense making to participatory sense making. And I wonder if that has any...
if that side of the formal figures of thought of an action feature in your analysis.
Good. No, no, so that they have not yet.
It's funny and interesting because I think there's a lot of opportunities there to think about the
role of social media and the internet in this context, right? So there's people working at
Google who do like qualitative studies about people's experience of social media and they
write about the kind of continued sense of social obligation because in my terms the
affordance of replying to a message is always there 24 hours a day because this device is there.
And so it gives... that gives a kind of the kind of messaging that's there. It is.
There's two individuals that reciprocally send messages to each other. So that kind of the shape
of that kind of technology seems to reinforce a kind of individualistic me against other people,
me against the world kind of picture rather than I guess kind of more participatory sense making
where that whole distinction kind of falls away. So I think there that... yeah, I haven't really
gone there but I think there's great great kind of both challenges and opportunities there for
such a kind of framework. There's a really interesting question about the temporal dynamics
involved actually because I know there's the occasions where you come across a conversation
on Twitter but it's a conversation that's a day old or two days old and it's like you don't want to
be the someone raising the undead thread. But then on the converse of that something vaguely
approaching participatory sense making is involved in the pylon where it's like this is happening
now. So everyone just... you either have the horrendous Troll-esque pylon or you have something
that sort of builds up to where you have... a recent one in Ireland was there was a very...
there's a television broadcast that happens once a year called The Toy Show which is a
pre-Christmas commercial thing that just this massive event. The entire country watches, kids
stay up late and they launched a funding appeal and of course it became this thing that everyone
gets involved in piles on the funding appeal. So in the course of about three and a half hours
they raised six million euro but because of precisely the kinds of dynamics that kind of
Twitter and the internet allowed. And so there is a fascination, some really interesting questions
about the kinds of dynamics, I think particularly the temporal dynamics that different technologies
allow, that there is the possibility for participatory sense making through these
forms of mediation as well. And I think that's a great example. I think another one is also the
fact that... I mean on Twitter you interact by text that are written down. So every statement
there is by definition a preposition. And so in a conversation I can start with on a position
and we find convergence but the very fact that it's already written down, you cannot backtrack
so easily on the things that you said when things are written down than when one things are...
when you're in a conversation where indeed in a kind of participatory way you can find common
ground or something like this. So again I think one of the reasons why this discussion escalates
so quickly is that no, this is... you need to stand your ground because you've put down your cards,
right? And while normally in a conversation we don't do that. Without shame you can...
No, yeah, it's maybe a phrase in the wrong kind of way. Let me rephrase it. And that kind of turn
taking participatory interactive process is something that's just not facilitated by that kind
of technological structure. Natural language isn't literal. No, it's written languages by
definition so it's a pretty good point. So that is a... we're sort of getting on towards our
finish time so I'll... I guess I'll give a warning for anyone who wants to throw a
text up on the YouTube chat just if you want to jump in on the last minute intervention.
I'm Fred Federerick. Either you'd like to make a final comment. But
with that I think we might bring the session to a close. So Gela, thank you very much
for that presentation and there's lots of nice food for thought. It was a rich
round for digging in. Well, there's certainly plenty for a three-year postdoc on that,
that is for sure. So thank you, thanks very much for giving your time for the Encel seminars
and yeah, we look forward. Hopefully we can meet again in person soon as well.
That'd be fantastic, yeah. Thank you.
Okay, thanks everyone and we will see you next month for Manuel Arras Escrivall
or who will kick off January 2021 if we ever get there.
