Okay, and welcome to the December, 2020, and so seminar, which will be presented by yellow
Brandeburg from the Macquarie University, although part of 2020 in Amsterdam, so seminar, which will
be presented by yellow Brandeburg. So, welcome yellow, and we will have, we're muted there for a moment.
Thank you.
You did your PhD in Amsterdam with Eric Riesfeld, is that right? And I've completed postdoc.
Yeah, sorry, I was just, I still had the YouTube link open, so I was hearing
double sounds, so I was like, what's going wrong? But now we're full focus, yeah.
Good. The joys of the Zoom seminar. So you are currently, you have moved to a postdoc position
in Macquarie University as of, sometimes you bring this decade of a year and will continue
in that position for at least another year as well, if at any point you actually get
sounds of the equator. Yeah, yeah, so it's a three-year position, but indeed, so far I've been
working remotely, but yeah, as everybody actually, so yeah. Indeed, so we have a few people are done
and we're expecting a couple of live participants for the discussion later, which ought to be
lively and interesting. I did, now I mentioned when we spoke before the possibility we might
give a single boost to something, if you have come across a reading or
some kind of resource in recently that you'd like to, you think, well, if that's something the
Ansel community might be interested in knowing about, have you come across any good papers or
books recently? Yeah, yeah, I'll share the screen. I made a little commercial break
slide. You can see it now, right? Yeah, so here it is. So on the left, there's something in the hands
book, An Active Psychiatry. We just had a reading group on it with the people,
Namster them, and I can warmly recommend it. I think it deals with the topics of
psychiatry, but also pushes an activism further in a number of directions, mainly that of the
notion of values, I think in a more existentialist direction and has some
really good points in developing a more relational realist metaphysics for an activism. So I really
enjoy that. And the other one is a little bit of a shameless self-promotion,
but I know many people in an activism are interested in the links with the free energy
principle. I worked on this in my PhD as well. And I received lots of students who
really want to work on all that stuff. And I just been publishing this preprint
a few days ago, where we share some doubts about the possibility of such a kind of approach,
specifically with the notion of market length. So this is not what we're going to talk about
today at all. But I thought for those interested in the more free energy principle kind of things,
I think this is a conversation which at some point we need to have with those people.
Excellent. Thank you very much for that. And I love the idea of a commercial break. We might
continue to use that one as things go on. But now I think we have a good few people online. God
the pandemic, it has pushed people for full-on internet engagement. And we have one or two
people coming into the live session. We'll keep them quiet until later on. But in the meantime,
Jelle, I can invite you to present the December 2020 EnSauce seminar.
Thanks a lot, Merrick. And so hello, everyone. Thanks for having me. And I'm just going to pretend
we somehow have cornered off a little corner of the internet and have a chat among friends.
It's somehow a bit weird to know that you're being broadcasted to the World Wide Web.
So I treat this as a kind of internal seminar. And so the topic today is the topic of my research
project in Macquarie called the world of the fingertips and what is cognition and the attention
crisis. And this is a bit of a new topic for me. And I'm still experimenting a little bit
with how to best introduce it. And so how I've been doing it was kind of starting with big
alarming claims about the attention economy and the idea that human attention is being harvested
for commercial gains. So this is the kind of kind of alarming story that you find in Shoshana Zubov's
work, The Age of Surveillance Capitalism. And also this is, I just have the books here,
this very good book by James Williams, Stand Out of Our Light. I can later on share the links to
those books or so. And in that literature, you find a more or less explicit or implicit
view of human nature. And sometimes that's a rather cognitiveistic view. Sometimes it's an
extremely behavioristic view. There's a lot of evolutionary psychology in that literature,
how we're just wired to be addicted to the internet or to smartphones, etc.
And then having presented all those positions, you can share like, oh, actually, there is some
space here for a more kind of embodied and inactive position that shows that both the kind
of vulnerabilities that we have in relationship to those technologies, but also the possibility
to have somehow in interacting with them, maintain some kind of autonomy. I tried this a
few times and that results in a kind of a big, big stroke kind of a kind of picture where you
really have competing pictures of human nature. And so today I want to try something a little bit
different and more trace a little bit my own thinking in how I arrived at this project. And
this really starts from more inactive principles and arrives in the end about the logic questions
about human nature and how that works. So this is the experiment for today. And then the starting
point now is actually something that I was reminded of again in Sonic's book. And then often in
inactivism, people write about sense making as a kind of projection of value on a neutral world.
So we kind of enact this world, we create it reconstituted. And in some sense, that's right,
right? That world is a co-production of us. But there's also something and in high diggers terms,
that might be something like the throne is or sense making, right? So in inactivism, we find
ourselves making sense of the world and in kind of the Amsterdam terminology, we find ourselves
being solicited in a meaningful way by a field of affordances, right? So we don't choose, we don't
decide which things we are affected by, how we make sense of the world. But we find ourselves
being affected in this way. And that is actually where agency starts. So we encounter this world
that is not completely of our own making. And of course, there's lots of aspects that do contribute
to this world. Of course, personal history, typically something like a history of interactions
with the environment, the kind of skills that you have acquired during your lifetime,
the social material environment itself, including all the practices of the education of attention,
etc. A form of life, the behavior settings, I believe the last answer seminar was on behavior
setting, the layout of the affordance in the environment. And like making this list, I got
to the question like, what about technologies? What about the kind of digital technologies
that we carry around with us? And of course, these aspects here are not mutually exclusive.
And I think there's a lot of overlap between them. But these are more like, I think, from
different theoretical vantage points in inactivism, you arrive at some of those, some of those
concepts a bit more permanently than other ones. And so I kind of noticed that I've been showing
these kind of pictures for years as a kind of a scenario of the hallmark of skills action where
an agent is engaging with multiple affordances at the same time and somehow maintaining a grip
on this interaction with the environment. And to my own embarrassment, actually, I suddenly
realized that the amount of technology that's going on in this picture, the amount of technological
mediation that's going on here. And if you come at it from a more affordance perspective,
this really leads to a couple of embarrassing questions that I was at least at that point
not able, still not actually able to answer properly. So is this an affordance? And you might
think in terms of solicitation of invitation, that's definitely the case. If you think about
when you read a book, and the phone is lying next to you, you definitely can feel the solicitation,
the invitation of something, even without the kind of push-up messages that you might every
once in a while encounter. And yes, it is an affordance in the sense that you can do lots of
things with it. But then you also might think, no, no, the phone itself is not the affordance,
it's a kind of gateway, it's a kind of mediated to affordances. And what are the affordances?
Yeah, maybe the apps on it, or the things you can do on the app. So there's a kind of,
the phone is kind of entwined in a new kind of niche. And I didn't quite have the terminology
and the concepts to think about it. And of course, there is a large history of what,
and this is the term I think that's from post phenomenology. So kind of more philosophy of
technology, angle to phenomenology. And they call this technological mediation. So the mediation
of intentionality by technologies. And of course, we find this in high-deck already,
or about the hammer. Well, if you carry the hammer, then the whole world shows up as for
hammerable, as far as kind of affording hammering. And in Meloponte, you find the example of the
blind person's cane. And these are all forms of the mediation of intentionality, but kind of
opening up to the same world in a different kind of way. At least that would be my way of,
my intuitive way of characterizing this. And then the question is like, so what about these
digital technologies? They don't, in a sense, they seem similar that they are transparent.
You see through the hammer, you see through the cane, and you see through your phone into something
else. But rather than showing up, allowing you the world to show up in a different way, it
shows up a new kind of world in which action possibilities are aligned in a different kind
of way. So the question is like, how to think about this? Is there something like a digital
niche, a cyber niche? Is that the right kind of terminology? And so I want to, as a kind of take
a few steps back about how to think about the influence of technology, I want to mention this
example from the fifties, really, early sixties. And that's the example of the remote control
for television. So in another book, very good book, the attention merchants, the subtitle is
the epic struggle to get inside our heads. The writer Tim Rue vividly captures the kind of
sentiment at the end of the fifties about the arrival of commercial breaks on television.
And the Zenith radio company, or this is engineers to kind of find an antidote against
this arrival of commercial breaks. And they develop this device that allows you to shoot out
commercial advertisements. And the result is something like an ad blocker of a letter where
you can kind of shoot at your television and mute the sound, and later on switch channels, etc.
And of course, this is something that we now know as a remote control. And this was really
meant as a kind of way for consumers to gain and maintain autonomy, be able to decide what you
want to look at. Rue calls it the resistance against the industrialized harvest of attention.
I think this is the kind of terminology that we find now again in the literature on the attention
economy. And then we kind of vividly described, and this is an abbreviated quote, how that dream
of autonomy was really short lived. So the remote control made it almost effortless, practically
non-volitional to redirect our attention. In fact, in the course of sustained channel
serving, the voluntary aspect of attentional control may disappear entirely. Having thus
surrendered, the mind is simply jumping about and following whatever grabs it.
So you can really think here about the idea like you're sitting late at night, you should be going
too bad, you want to go to bed in some sense of wanting, but there is this kind of behavioral
cycle going on of sustained channel serving. And I think Rue highlights a few key points here,
the idea that something like volition or executive control seems to be disappearing
entirely from that episode. And in some sense, this appearance of control is also the hallmark
of the kind of descriptions of skilled action that drivers gives, kind of skilled coping, skilled
mindless coping. Although this is a mindless coping, but not in the right sense of the world.
So there's parallels there between the kind of skilled coping examples, but also, of course,
big differences. So I think Rue presents us here with a puzzle, and the pieces are something like
friction or sensory motor effort, it becomes so easy to change channels that we somehow become
more impulsive, volition and executive control are disappearing. And the question is how to
put that puzzle together. And so I think what you find here is really an, I'll call it clashing
anthropologies. And it's anthropology, in a sense, it's sketches or pictures of human nature.
But then the human nature is not something that's immutable and unchangeable, but something that
is, you might say enacted. So this remote control is really designed for a particular kind of agent.
And that's an agent who knows what it wants, and just needs the easiest means to realize in the
world what it wants. So the kind of distinction between what are your goals, what are your values,
and what you can do if you have a strong distinction between those, then it's a
good device to have. It's a less ideal tool, I think, for a situated agent that figures out
in interacting with the world what it wants. So the goals and the concerns and the solicitations
are not independent of your interaction with the world, but they're shaping each other.
So the kind of the anthropology of autonomy, we are rational beings, we know what to do,
and we just need to shape the world so that it becomes as easy as possible for us to know what
to realize what we do. I think that in this case had very unintended consequences. In many cases of
behavioral design in modern technology, that's not unintended, that's completely
intended, the kind of behavioral effects it is having.
So what you find in the literature really are two narratives here on attention, but the narratives
are way more than narratives on attention. There are narratives on autonomy, there are narratives
on agency, there are these kind of anthropologies, I should say. And so I already mentioned James
Williams' book, and this is a standout of a light, you see the subtitle, freedom and resistance in
the attention economy. And so this is really an attempt to describe what our possibilities are
in the age of the attention economy, how we can think about freedom, what is at stake,
and how we can regain it. And part of Williams' narrative is following Herbert Simon in saying
that while historically there has been a kind of scarcity of information and therefore an abundance
of attention, but now in this kind of information-rich time to live in times of information overload
and therefore a scarcity of attention. So what we need to do is put something like a boundary in
place to kind of separate us from the information in the environment so that we can reflect and
decide and be autonomous again. On the other hand, we have a completely different narrative,
and I think that narrative follows the more behaviorist principles. So Nera Jaal writes
also, I think the subtitles and the titles are really telling here, so hooked, how to build
habit-forming products. And it's a story about how to get users hooked to your products. And that's
a story about you can make the environment as inviting as possible, but the real thing is to
get inside the agent and hack their habits. So in environmental competition, there's still a lot
of competition between different kind of companies, but if you can be prior to that and instill in a
user an urge or something like this to engage with the product, then you're really talking,
then you're really getting people hooked. And interestingly, in terms of a kind of quasi-phenomenology,
I think Jaal is really closer to the point in terms of the idea that indeed, if you structure
how agents find themselves in the world, what kind of habits they have, how they are solicited
by this world, then you don't need to place interesting things in the world. They will
look for themselves. So you really have hijacked agents in some particular kind of way. And of
course, for Jaal, this is situated in a general picture of human nature where in the end, we are
behaviorist machines. So autonomy and agency are not really in the cards anyway, so there's nothing
really, really ethically wrong with the kind of hook model. James Williams has something more to
defend. He wants to have a more robust idea of autonomy and freedom that is at stake.
So the hope is here that inactivism really can provide a more
realistic anthropology. I think the success of the attention merchant shows that we are situated
beings formed through our interaction with the environment. And autonomy is not something that
puts a boundary in place between us and the world, but it needs to be achieved through interactions
with the environment. So that's where it kind of combines the points from Jaal and Williams, I think.
I think we're doing still right quite time, right?
Yeah, I think we're good at the time. Then I'll make a little excursion through
neuroscience, hopefully to get back to the same point. So I've been a long-term fan of
something that's called the affordance competition hypothesis, some of you might know it. And I think
it's a general framework for neuroscience. It's very much in key with what importance
an activist principles. And what you get from there, of course it's a bit neurocentric, but
you get there is the idea that this is a quote from Paul Cissek. So decision-making is not a
single unified phenomenon with a single neural substrate. So we should stop thinking about
decision-making as one thing, but rather a distributed process that emerges differently
across the nervous system, depending on the information that finally determines the choice.
And you see a lot of work at the moment, both by Cissek but other people as well,
there's a recent paper by Bernard Hummel, which Cissek is a co-author and says nobody knows what
