meaningful shows. They're just funny and relaxing and relaxing is the thing that's important to do
too. Yeah. But for like two hours a day, I don't know, maybe more sometimes doesn't sound like that
of watching reruns. Okay. Yeah. I mean, it could, it could be worse. And I mean, that's probably
about an average. But it's still like, come on, I could be, like I said earlier, I could at the
very least be watching new television. Right. But I hate memorizing new characters and new names
and new storylines. I still find that process daunting. That's why it's so hard for me to
start new books. But I need to, I need to get over that. And I think I will. I'll just actually
start doing it. I'll watch Atlanta. I need to catch up on Westworld. Oh, Atlanta's so good.
No, I'm sure it's great. I've heard all the good things. That reminds me, I stopped Deadpool
today. I didn't say that on the air yet. It was very fun. Everyone go see it. Speaking of Brooklyn
Nine-Nine, Terry Cruz plays a main character in that show. Oh, in Brooklyn Nine-Nine. Yeah.
Okay, okay. And it's great. The whole show is outstanding. They do, I mean, they're all great
actors. They're all great. A lot of them are very funny, like people and other stuff. Andy
Sandberg plays the main role. But it's just like the level of like writing, like, you know,
the straight man of the group, you know, the stern Professor McGonagall style character,
just as a kind of a comedic twist, the straight man in the show is gay. And, you know, that's,
it's that level of like kind of like subtle quirky, like jivey humor that runs the whole thing.
Okay. So it's like, it's vaguely a cop show, but they're just, it's, it's really funny,
a lot of running jokes and that sort of thing. In fact, it's a cop show also kind of threw me.
I mean, it might as well not. It could be a, it could be anything. It just happens to be a cop
show. It could, it's, you know, I suppose I can think of it as in an ideal world. This is what
actual cops would be like. Maybe we'll talk about this at some point. I am of the unpopular opinion
that police are not as bad as everyone as it is now popular to sit on them for. Many things,
many cops are, many, there are many issues with the police force. I'm not, I don't want to be,
the guy is like, you know, blue lives matter. Our boys in blue never do anything wrong.
They do and that sucks. And, but I mean, you know, this is somebody who had a vague ambition
in their teenage years of wanting to be a police officer, because I love the idea of like the
protector class of people. You know, it's, it's, it's their ambition to be, you know, the first
line of defense, protecting people. And that's not really what it is. I mean, I love that idea too.
And that's what it aspired to be, I think. I think that's one of the reasons that the police
force is as bad as it is, because the people who are just sadistic monsters get in there
and the protector class leave because they don't want to be around those people. And so it degenerates.
Yeah, it could be kind of, it could have gotten to the bottom. And I don't, I'm not that in on it.
I do, I was really slowed down a couple of years ago. When I came across a number that
could dig up again, I've got it saved somewhere in my Reddit history. Was it the roughly 30%
of cops score on the psycho? No, no, no, this was the opposite kind of finding that it was like
85% of the time there was, it was like a list of like all the fatal shootings that year, maybe
2015 or 16 or something. And there were a few hundred in the US, which is a lot, but like 85%
of the time they were under the apparent threat of a gun. And I was under the impression before
that that it was like almost never that they're shooting poor innocent people screaming not to
be killed all the time. And that's at most like 15% of these deaths, which don't go wrong. That's
way too many. I was about to say I'm not defending a lot. But my perception was, and I think many
people's perception is, is that it's like all of them. And it's like, no, a lot of these people
are brandishing a weapon or something. And like, or an apparent firearm, which I think that's what
this number was, wasn't just like they came at them with a bat. In that case, you don't need to
shoot them 16 times. But the same time too, they're not going to throw down their gun and grab their
baton and get into a sword fight, right? And I mean, the reason is that like, if they lost the
sword fight, which they probably would because they're not trained swords fighters or knife fighters,
whatever it is, I don't want to make it too facetious. But the idea that like, hey, if I get
knocked out, now this bad guy has a gun, because now he's got my gun. And now I think of all the
damage he could do. And also you kind of do got to shoot him a lot because I mean, the thing that
stops people is blood loss, right? And you need to shoot people a number of times to get the
blood loss low enough that they're high enough that they'll pass out. Right. And don't get
wrong, I'm horrified by every instance, you know, there was that one just a couple months ago where
because like bullets don't do enough meat damage to incapacitate you by taking out a muscle, you
just got to. Yeah, but they fucking think that stops a lot of people too. Yeah. But yeah, if
somebody's charging you, you're not going to shoot, stop and see if they stopped, and then shoot
again. It's kind of just like, no, we got to put this guy down. And, you know, is there a trigger
happy subsection of the population of police officers? Absolutely. And that's fucked up. And
that shouldn't be the case. I'm not coming off as like I said, cops do nothing wrong. But I think
I'm less anti cop than the average person in my community. I think it's the fact that there are
so many awful cops that really puts me off to the system as a whole, because it's the same thing
with like the Catholic priests, it's sure only a small percentage of the molested children. But
what is wrong with the institution that those people stay there and are protected, it makes me
think that everyone there must be pretty awful if these, you know, psychotic sadistic cops keep
just staying in the forest and are protected by their friends, you're not that much better than
the other guy. And I don't think like someone who did have that protector ideal would be able to
stay in a system like that that does protect the sadistic awful people. Yeah, there's probably
the occasional martyr who manages to stick around and try and make things better or something. But
yeah. And that's that's a really good point. And I think that I mean, you know, the system that
allows bad police officers, you know, why isn't the motivation of every of every district or precinct,
I'm not sure how this work on what level these distance are made at. But why isn't it like,
no, absolutely body cams, we should the second those become available, we want them all, we want
these bad cops off the street, even more than you do. Combine that with the fact that like your
average persons only encounter the police is them rolling you for, you know, going through a stop
sign, you know, or rather, like, not a California stop is what it's called, where you come to a
slow stop or slow roll and then go through, you get $150 ticket. So like you only encounter the
police and then being complete dicks and being unfair. So like, there's that. But I mean, I think
you've got, you know, your sadistic dickbag cop, who's like, I'm going to go out there and make
lives hard on people or like, you know, the ones who are like, no, I think this is great,
I want to help people and it'll be nice. I went to like the Youth Police Academy when I was in
junior high. And all those cops are just like, you know, the warm and fuzzy, you know, like,
yeah, this is great, you know, we're here to help. And this is cool. You can drive this police car,
we'll let you, you know, do these little drills. And it was fun. Awesome. And then you get people
like Kyle Kanane, comedian mentioned, you know, like, pays $10 more than an hour in the post office
and I get a gun, like, oh, yeah, I get you, man, you're just, you're just having a job, you know.
But then at the day too, you know, it's pretty cool that if, you know, somebody breaks into your
house or you're feeling threatened, you can call the police, many people can call the police and
somebody will show up at your house, put their life at risk to help come help, you know. Granted,
I know that many people don't have that privilege. A lot of people, you know,
they're on cool cops or cops aren't cool to some people. Yeah, I just, I don't know.
I've been convinced that cops generally always make things worse when they show up.
They can never make things better unless like there's literally someone in your house trying
to shoot you or something. And they can just bring a gun into a situation and make things worse.
I mean, at some point, you want, you know, you might want somebody to bring a gun.
Right, right. I guess if there was literally someone in my house,
yeah, then, then they couldn't make it any worse at that point, right?
Yeah, probably. Like I said, I don't, I'm not going to, I'm not going to say that there aren't
problems. There definitely are and they're, they're huge and they're, they're terribly discouraging and,
you know, societally depressing. But the idea that like all cops are terrible, I hate that.
I hate all anything is anything sentences for the most part. Yeah. I feel like that's painting
with too broad a brush, which we've had a conversation like that before. It's like,
and it could be too many. It is too many. Right. It's okay. It's certainly not all,
but it's enough that I am very hesitant to ever involve the police or anything.
I can't remember last time I called the cops. I called them a few times in my teens when things
went, you know, scary, but nothing ever useful happened. So that's a good point.
I went to the police station once to file a report when the neighbor at my old place threatened
to kill everyone. And they're like, okay, we're writing it down. Thanks. I'm like,
that's, that's all you can do. They're like, yeah, that's literally all we can do.
We wrote down that you made a complaint. I mean, at some point that's not,
I do this annoying thing where like I try to steal man things that they're just
made of jello and it's not going to work. But one thing is like,
what would you want them to do? Take your word for it and go arrest them?
Arrest them, but go talk to them and maybe go talk to them. Maybe they should have done that.
Right. I mean, at the very least, if two people came in in a few months with those things,
like, all right, now we've got enough that our red tape says we can go do something.
But you don't want your neighbor, you know, who just doesn't like you because of whatever
reason to be able to call the cops and be like, he's being a dick and have cops come kick your
door in, right? So like there needs to be some barrier there. But at the same time, it's still
like, Hey, we should do something before this person snaps and starts actually killing his
neighbors, right? Yeah. I don't know. That's a tough line to cross or tough line to toe. I don't
really know how to solve that. I was just, I was kind of surprised at how useless going to them was.
Yeah. And I mean, I guess obviously it's better to have a paper trail because if it keeps happening,
you know, they build up a record. And especially, you know, if other people complain as well,
but it was like, huh, okay. I almost feel like that was a waste of time.
Yeah, I can totally see that. Sam Harris had a cop on his podcast. I think it was,
I can't remember what the episode was. It was right during those like four episodes in a few
couple months where he did like a Navy SEAL, a police officer slash like now private, you know,
advanced weapons tactics trainer and stuff. And it was like a few episodes on like how to
deal with like violence in the real world. Oh, yeah, I remember that one. That was a really good
episode. It was really good. So strong recommend on that. It was a fun perspective. But one thing
that Harris, I can't every point this out to his cop friend or his another episode, but
he was like, I have a friend who lives in LA like in a million dollar house neighborhood,
and she was robbed. And, you know, one of the things they stole was like her iPad,
and they could point to the house where this person was at. So she goes to the police station,
because on her phone, you know, as long as you've got it connected to your network of devices on
your iCloud stuff, you can say, yep, from my iPhone, I can see my iPad. And this is the house that
it's at. They were like, okay, thanks. And it's like, well, what, you guys are gonna go get it?
It's like, we literally can't. Our resources are stretched too thin. So like, at that point,
if they don't have the resources to go after, you know, some millionaire stuff in a nice neighborhood,
you know, it makes sense that they don't have the time to go after your neighbor, right?
But that's sort of like a bigger scale problem than, you know, it's not even maybe they just
don't want to. They just can't. They should be spending all this time harassing people and
writing stupid tickets. Yeah. I mean, traffic cops and, you know, drug war and all that crazy
bullshit sucks up a lot of their time where they could be actually doing useful stuff.
And destroys lives for no reason. And the systemic problem that the culture of police officers
defends bad cops rather than says, fuck that monster, we want him out of our ranks too.
I guess I kind of get there's probably this, this us against them kind of thing. And just
for the same reason that, you know, any small, any minority community is reluctant to eject
members who are getting a little fringe is, you know, even sometimes very fringe, right? I mean,
how bad do some people, you know, we talked with Vivian a few weeks ago about TERFs, you know,
that the trans exclusionary radical feminists, they're probably in some feminist circles still,
right? They don't get kicked out for being total dicks because it's like, well,
we need all the help we can get kind of thing. I'm not sure what causes people to keep like
people like that around. And it is a dark mark on, you know, the feminist groups that keep those
people in their ranks. But it, I don't know how to, how to solve that either, right? But it seems
to me a similar tone of issue. So don't get me wrong. I think I'm pro the ideal of cops,
which I think most people are. But I think there's too much of eagerness to like, this is my only
point, I'm not making very much of a strong point. If it sounds like I am, I'm not. My whole point is,
is that I think that saying all cops are evil or all, you know, it's, I think anything with
word all is too broad. And there's no, I don't know, I think it's too harsh. Like I, you know,
I've met some really cool cops. I guess the best you can say is on net, this institution is either
useful or detrimental to society. I don't know how we do that without the institution completely,
right? Right. We just divulge into the purge. I saw the trailer for the first purge, whatever,
like the prequel movie, which I only saw the first purge movie. It was a fun premise. Then I saw
the Rick and Morty episode and I was like, all right, I've seen them all. Yeah. But it, although
apparently the premise of the first purge is that it was used by the government as an excuse to send
out cops to murder people. That's true. But the idea that, you know, we need to, yes, I think that,
you know, people need to, all the purge movies are jokes. But I do think that at some point,
you need the threat of like, yes, we will kidnap you and throw you an Azkaban if you do too much
bad stuff that needs to loom over society because some people need those bumpers to keep them in
check. Right. Or at least enough people need that, that decided to collapse without that threat.
I don't know why this is such a long thing that I got on. I don't know how this started. Sorry.
It's all good. All right. Well, that was our weird digression on police and stuff. I can't remember
how that came around. So we, we started like resting with something. Yeah. Okay. All right.
Welcome to the Beijing conspiracy. You've been listening for a half hour. I'm Hini Ashbrotsky.
And I'm Steven Zuber. Thanks for your patience. Indeed. We do not have a guest this week because
we figured it was a good week just to catch up with, I don't know, chatting about other things,
doing some, some rat pics, which we haven't done or rat chat. And yeah, things like that.
Yeah. This is what happens when we have a guest to like, talk to and we just keep us on track. Yeah.
Like, so what about that local sports team? Right. Okay. Did you want to start us off?
I figured, I guess I don't really want to start off material.
Did we want to like start with listener feedback this time? Do it all backwards?
Sure. Why not? As long as we're going way out of order.
Yeah.
Well, skimming through some stuff here on the subreddit. Last week I rate, I want, I like to,
you know, once in a while tow some gentle controversy. So I was curious what the Storten
Peterson business was. And I've spent some time reading a bit more about him. I still can't
bring myself to watch any of his videos. I did read Scott Alexander's review of his book,
The 12, The 12 Rules for Life. And Peter or Scott seems to really enjoy the book. I think
Scott's kind of long-winded and hard to summarize, which holy shit, might be the whole point of
like Peterson being hard to summarize and long-winded. All right, that gave me pause.
I think Scott has a very, I hate to use the term mystical, but almost sort of a mystical,
spiritual connection to certain intellectual things. And this just seemed to hit all the
right buttons for him.
He's the guy who wrote the book on, you know, the world running on cobalistic law and, you
know, everything, you know, he gets that level of mystical is the word I can think of too,
thinking I think pretty intuitively. Right.
So someone's making a hundred parables about hell and heaven and, you know,
metaphor and then drawing all these lessons from it or something. Well, that might hit Scott
