Peterson would never claim that religious people don't do horrible things. I could have sworn
that someone told me, or I read somewhere that religious people who do terrible things aren't
really religious. And atheists who do good things are, are really religious. That he,
he quates religiosity with doing the good thing, whether or not you profess a belief in religion.
I could be wrong there. So I want to learn more about that. I don't know why I'm spending so much
time on, on Jordan Peterson. I'm just, the whole phenomenon is kind of, kind of curious to me,
because like I said, my, my first impression was that this guy was a crank and I had no idea why
anyone would take him seriously. And then I met smart people I know in real life who, who I respect.
And they're like, Oh no, there's something to them. Check him out. And I'm like, okay, well,
given that I'm a slow reader, I really want to dedicate 30 hours to reading his book.
But I'm now talking to the idea that I might. So we'll see.
Could make for an interesting episode.
Yeah. Yeah. All right. Give me six months. I'm a slow reader.
Speaking about controversial laws and restricting freedoms and such.
Oh, hold on. I'm sorry. Really quick. I don't mean to interrupt. Operation question
gave us a link to a five minute video, which I haven't watched yet. I just found it. I should
read these before I come here. It's been a weird week. We asked for a short video. And apparently
there's a five minute one. I will check that out. Do you want to pause and just watch it right now?
Do you want to? Sure. All right. We're pausing. BRB.
All right. We're recording. We'll link that video. Steven, you have thoughts.
Yeah. A few. First and most shallow. He doesn't look what I thought he would sound like,
or he doesn't look like he, I thought he would look from his voice.
Oh, you haven't seen him before.
I think I have, but I haven't seen him and seen him talk. I've seen his picture before,
and I've heard him on the, I've heard him on Sam Harris's podcast.
Okay.
But he sounds older than he looks. And he looks like in his video, he's just like
in a suit and stuff. He looks like he would sound more like the most interesting man in
the world from those old commercials. Okay.
And instead he sounds like this kind of like, you know, old guy. It was interesting.
That was obviously not the content of the video.
Stay thirsty, my friend.
So the video is basically, it's titled, Clean Up Your Room. And his point is, is that,
you know, the first thing you could start doing to like, what was his word for it?
Stop doing what you know is wrong and do better for yourself.
The first thing you can do is literally clean up your room.
Yeah, literally clean your room. It's the expression of yourself.
It's your environment and that sort of thing.
That might be a simple instruction that, you know, might be more original.
But the idea that like, you know, you're struggling with becoming a better person
and self actualizing, it's not a lot to me like, you know, what Islam teaches about
like the internal jihad, you know, the struggle against yourself and, you know,
your base, your acracia versus self actualization or something, right?
Or maybe what, you know, Eastern traditions are more about like enlightenment
or self fulfilling or something. You know, why aren't we doing that?
I don't know if maybe this is someone's first exposure to that idea.
It sounds pretty profound. It's not, you know, I don't think he's claiming it for his own either.
But I also found that fairly intelligent sounding and worth five minutes watching.
I think everyone should check it out if they're at all interested in this dude.
I still don't get the love for him. Like, yes, that's good advice.
And I also strongly back it, but I don't, I don't see him as like a prophet.
I don't know if he managed to inspire some people to start cleaning up the room,
then I guess it was worth it. And it's a good video for them because I mean,
that that really is good life advice, literally and metaphorically to clean up the room and,
you know, yeah, well, start with the literally.
Yeah. And the other thing he advocates is like in this sort of video is to
stop saying things that you know, aren't true or that make you feel bad saying it.
But again, like, like Matt was saying, that's really been all common advice.
I guess like some people just like his presentation.
And if that's what works for you, then yeah, sure, go for it.
Go for it.
Maybe the long winded version of that thing is actually inspiring enough to get you to do it.
Okay.
Like, I mean, one thing that I've come to realize over the last few years that like,
that stopped me from being more successful early on and like quote successful,
because I just started like, I've just passed a year at my first real job and I'm 28 is like,
just stop me in the words of the great philosopher Shia LaBeouf, just do it.
I believe he got that from Nike.
We delivered into that flexing TED talk.
If you haven't seen that TED talk, don't bother, but watch two seconds of it.
He just says, just do it over and over. It's very funny.
Don't let your dreams be dreams.
But it's actually that there's a certain kind of audience.
You told me once that Atlas Shrugged was a very formative and important book to you at the time
that you needed it in your life, but you wouldn't recommend reading it.
Right.
So maybe this is like that.
I think some people would recommend reading it for Peterson.
Like, I don't know how much I could glean from this,
although if Alexander gleaned something from it, I probably could.
I'd like to think, unless it goes right over my head.
But I could think of people who could literally start in the place of like clean up your room
and you know, I have people I know who feel disorganized and like they're trying to figure
their stuff out. Hey, this might be the kind of book that this person needs.
I don't know. I'm not talking about you.
No, no.
I'm looking at you when I'm saying it.
Yeah, I understand.
I kind of, I don't know.
I get the feeling that this is one of those things everyone needs to find out for themselves.
And most people, when they find it out for themselves, get a push from some external
source like a Peterson or something.
And so, even though it sounds like banal to most people, the people who get it right then
when they need it, which is everyone at some point in their life, really latch onto that
person who helped deliver it at that point.
And I think this is another one of those frustrating fucking things about aging and dying.
Because this, this shit takes some time to learn.
Like, nobody knows at the beginning of their life how to get things done and that keeping
your room clean is actually important and that getting enough sleep is really important.
It's shit that you find out through the long suffering process of going through life and
being shitty at things and slowly getting less shitty.
And then once you start learning that stuff, you get old and you die.
And the next generation has to learn it all fucking over again.
And it's this continual treadmill.
And I don't know, but people say like, well, why don't you learn from your elders or something?
I think that is such bullshit.
No one in their lives has ever learned anything from their elders.
The elders just gave them that push, right?
When they were about to learn it themselves, like, like Peterson, you know, and I guess
that's good that if he, if he's fulfilling that role for a number of people who don't
have anyone else in their life to fulfill it for them.
And maybe he's one of those people that like says, you know, saying are mostly good things,
75% of the time and 25% of it is that kind of fringe.
And like, I wish he wouldn't say that so much, but this stuff, this stuff's cool.
Maybe that's this guy.
All right. I think I moved.
I will try.
I'll at least read more of his stuff and watch some of his stuff.
Maybe some essays I could read that'd be nice, but I might actually read this book.
I'll put it on my list.
Well, I can't put it on my list of a hundred books.
I'll make a point to try and read it soon.
Well, I mean, the list, the bottom of the list never gets read.
So it's all about where you're putting it on the list.
The top of my list takes eight months to get around to like cracking the cover.
And then I get tired.
All right. I have a list of TV shows I got to watch and
the Twin Peaks is slowly inching closer to the top of that list.
So I might actually watch that sometime.
Tell Rachel when you start it. She'll love it.
Oh yeah.
Yeah. She might even, if you, in fact, if you watch it, I'll give it a shot with you.
Okay.
Um, I'd watch the first episode once and I could not get into it because I,
this was years ago before I had any sense at all of like, I don't know, cinematography or like,
you know, diff non-traditional storytelling.
And that's very much what this is.
Yes.
The director, apparently like everything he does is like this.
He's amazing.
Yeah. So, you know,
You saw Fight Club, right?
Yeah.
Oh, you didn't like Fight Club?
I get, I get kicked back on this every time.
I, I liked parts of Fight Club.
I thought that it was fun.
It was this cool kind of like, you know, undertake, you know,
a lot of parts of it were cool.
Mainly I hated the end.
Okay.
So like at the end, if you haven't seen Fight Club skip 30 seconds.
He shoots himself on the face to kill Brad Pitt.
And then he's talking with his girlfriend and holding her hand
and watching the world burn or whatever.
And talking with like this raspy voice.
Like, so I'm thinking if you shot yourself in the face, you'd be dead.
Right?
He managed to miss all the important parts.
So he really did shoot himself is how that ended.
That's what I, that's how someone, so my, my issue was that I,
for years I hated this movie because I was like,
so he metaphorically shot himself in the head
or shot himself in the face to kill Brad Pitt.
But he's still talking with a rasp.
Like he actually did damage with the gun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I'm like, okay, so did he do it or not?
Like, did he, did he, did he, did he shoot Brad Pitt?
Did he shoot himself in the face to kill Brad Pitt?
Like he's gotten a fist fight with Brad Pitt.
And he just did it psychologically.
In that case, why is he bleeding and have a rasp?
Like what the fuck's going on here?
So the answer that the second person say this is like,
he actually did.
He just survived.
Yeah.
And he survived enough to talk and stand around and not be like,
I need to go to the hospital now.
He's dead.
Well, this is a guy that's like been fighting himself
and not realizing it.
You can't take a bullet from that.
No, but, but he could like easily think that he's blowing
his own brains out and actually have the gun pointing like
out his cheek or something, you know.
Oh, so the raspiness wasn't because he shot himself in the
mouth or like through the, I thought that he shot himself
in the back of the head, like through the mouth to the back.
I mean, that's, that's obviously what he thought he did too,
because you see him putting the gun in his mouth.
But since he survived and seems to be just kind of bleeding
with the raspy voice, he must have not shot himself that well.
So the raspiness might be him gurgling on blood, not on him
talking through broken vocal cords that he shot with a gun.
Right.
See, I was under the impression that he either survived
with a gunshot that would have, you know, blown the head off
