And then I've got this weird light coming out of my head, and then I've got this weird
fourth-dimensional LSD-fueled way of looking at it that it's not articulate yet. I'll eventually
get this figured out, but I can just word vomit it at you. You've got all these expectations
of what your life is supposed to be, and you sort of develop them in childhood or maybe through
your life. This is what I wanted to happen. And at some point, they either do or they don't,
the things that you want. But at the end of the day, you have, assuming things don't go great,
like eight decades to be alive on earth and walk around and see the universe. And if that didn't
go according to the plan that your apish evolved brain came up with, it's like, dude, so what?
This was the life you had. And that's, I'm sure there's a philosophy that covers that
sort. Maybe it's stoicism or something, but it's like, this is just how your life was. And what
is that a big deal to? Maybe it's what this is getting at, right? Like to yourself, but then
just have your goals be what you have. Maybe that's a lot easier said than done.
I kind of see what you're saying, but there's also, if your goals are just do whatever happens,
then you don't end up striving for the really big things that you wanted, right?
I don't know if that follows. I could see how it's a super tempting way to walk into it.
I think having an ambition is actually really kind of cool and very frustrating too. Obviously,
I'm not going to be getting this novel I just wrote published the traditional way. So
I've come to my peace with that. And maybe that's part of what's been fueling all this too,
that I got to start all over with another one now. But if you're just like, hey, you know,
I'm just going to do whatever and live my lady in my eight decades here, I feel like there's,
it's cool to have like something big to grow for, you know, to really drive you. I like people
with that fire. And I do too. I think maybe I'm not expressing it well. Like I said, this wasn't
articulate because I'm not anti-ambition. I'm very pro-ambition. I think it's great to have
big projects, you know, like I want people like Elon Musk be like, you know what,
fucking Mars is going to happen. I don't want it to be like, you know, it's not meant to be or
whatever, right? What I want is like, first of all, I don't know what the process is exactly like,
but maybe, you know, I'm not sure when it's time to give up and self-publish or sell it yourself
or whatever. But, you know, that doesn't mean that like, that can't happen for you, right?
But say something that, you know, you wanted to happen, but just something that didn't work out,
like a, like something that, you know, could have happened, but didn't, you know. And so like,
how long, I don't think this is turning her up, but just now going with hypothetical.
Imagine she, you know, this is like two or three years, she's still upset. So like at that point,
how long are you going to let that eat away at you? It's like, dude, don't. Like this, this,
this just happens not to happen. Right. And there's something that you can do to change that.
If you could, if you could do hard work and good plans, make it happen, then by all means, go nuts.
It's a sucky thing that happened and you can use it to fuel you, but don't let it like destroy you.
Yeah. Or maybe just take a different spin on it. Like a very minor example, a few weeks ago,
I learned that they're hiring another entry level developer for the core services team at work,
which is like the cool platform team that's building the foundation of this three quarter
billion dollar company that I was on for like six months before I was moved off to like the mobile
app team, which is like, fuck you. Well, so I was kind of buttered about it for a little while,
and then I learned to hire another SE one for that team. And I'm like, what the hell? You know,
I know more than they do. I've been doing this for a while and I know what they, what they've
been doing over there. It would take a lot less time to catch me up. What makes this new, but
better than me. And I was kind of better about that for like two hours, maybe most of a day.
And then I was walking across the bridge back to my car and I was like, you know,
why am I bummed about this? You know, in a few, in a couple of years, I'll look back and be like,
oh yeah, I was on, I was not selected to go back to the cool team at the first development job
that I had. Like how big of a deal is this really? Now I didn't take that to be like, you know what,
things are just going to happen. I don't need to try and going to take a backseat. I still want to
get awesome. I still want to be really good at my job and be a, you know, for the goal of like a,
making a fortune and be, you know, excelling. I'd love to be, you know, like there's a 25 year,
or I think he just turned 26. And he's a senior. And his dad's an architect. So like he's been
around this as a kid, but like, yeah. And he, I mean, he's been like, since he started here,
that just this Titan of like knowledge that the, you know, 15 year veteran seniors are going to
be like, be think about this. I would love to be. I think it's super fucking cool. That's that
they guys got some personality things with the work that he takes it, I think way too seriously.
Granted, there's a lot on his shoulders. This company wouldn't be where it's at without specifically
him. But like, I think he doesn't let himself enjoy it. And I think that's the hard part about
work. If you really want to be good at it, you got to care. I just can't care about accounting.
Oh, that's fair. I mean, so I care, but not enough to like let it ruin my day, right? Or bring down
my like life. He seems to hate his life. And I'm, dude, you make, I'm assuming like $130,000 a year
and you're 26. You'll be able to retire at 32. Yeah, get a grip, bro. Yeah. You know, do whatever
you need to do to enjoy the fuck out of this. Right? Yeah. But I mean, I get it. He's a different
person. He's got his other life stresses. I don't know him that well, whatever. But the, so like
my, my nonchalant attitude doesn't mean that I don't want to kick ass and excel. It just means
that like, I don't, I'm trying not to let things get to me. And I think it's working. You know,
like when I'm sorry, we're still talking about not the podcast. That's okay. You know what,
I'll throw this into the main podcast at some point because this is interesting.
And that was more of a hypothetical. I don't, I think that she may, I think, I know she was hurt
by it, but I don't think that she still is. But if she is, she, you know, I think the
perspective to take is just this, you know, big step back, you know, what Neil DeGrasse, Tyson
and Carl Sagan would call the cosmic perspective and just like, you know, not to say like, you
don't matter. You're an ant on this floating speck of dust. I can't, I can't take the cosmic
perspective because I always get suicidal. Then that's not what I'm talking about. Okay. I'm like,
I see nothing matters. I will God. And that's one of those things that like you want,
you want to be remembered after you die, right? Sure. And that's why you're right. You're like,
maybe I'll be like Homer or Shakespeare or something, but both of those guys got really
fucking lucky. And for each one of them, there's been like 10,000 different writers and you know,
eventually you're just going to fade into obscurity. And it's only been 2000 years,
give it 100,000 years. No one's going to know anything that I've ever done. And it's just,
it's like, so why bother with anything at all? So. So you and I have two solutions to that. Well,
one, one is not die. Yes. Then you can continue to be productive and contribute to society.
That's right. And just enjoy stuff. But I guess that's another part of life. That's nice.
But the other part, I think it is like, not, not to worry about like, not to not care. And
by the cosmic present, maybe the cosmic perspective was the right way to think about it.
Because that's not, I think the constructive, like things still matter. I'm still, you know,
I still get, you know, annoyed in traffic or something, but I don't get, let it overtake me.
You know, so like, when we went to go visit my sister in the hospital, when the first night that
she was in there, we could go Wednesday, we could go last Wednesday, we got there. I didn't know
if we were supposed to go up or not. So we just hung out and talked outside for like an hour.
And we talked a lot about like, you know, the possibility of one of our family members dying
or something. And, you know, like I've historically expressed a very terrified and kind of kryptonite
attitude regarding death. And, you know, when I was talking about this, Rachel said, oh, yeah,
you know, I thought, you know, I've thought about this before about how, you know, this might impact
you, you know, like a couple years ago, my grandma had some very minor surgery. And, you know, it was
just one more thing, you know, she's in her 80s and other things are going wrong and they fixed it.
And I kind of came home and I was pretty upset that, you know, one of these days they're
not going to be able to fix it. And it's going to be a, you know, eventually she's going to die.
And that's hard for me to say. But I can actually say that sentence now, you know,
whenever this was, I just told her, you know, like, eventually, it's not going to be a surgery
that we're going to go to, right? So like, well, I mean, it sucks. And it's, you know,
it's terrible. I don't, I'm not, I'm not resigned to death. I think it's still the worst thing ever
and no one should ever have it. But in their lives or to themselves. But dude, I'm still terrified
of getting old. I know that at least, at least two or three times a year, something happens.
Like just a few days ago, I slipped on that third step right there. And, you know,
still young enough that I managed to just jump down on the ground and catch myself. But I'm like,
dude, if I was old and 80 and didn't have this ability, I would have landed on my ass and broken
a hip and possibly died. And just even if I wasn't died, I would have been crippled for the rest of
my life. And like, fuck, I'm going to have to be so much more careful when I'm old like that.
And it just not looking forward to that whole process.
I'm sort of, I'm not really coping with that at all. I think I rather by not coping, I mean,
I'm not even considering it. I think, I mean, I'm old enough to where like, I've had lasting
damages from injuries, which is stupid because we're, you know, we're young and virile, that
shouldn't be the case. But you know, when you're 80, you'll put a banister on your stairs or what
do you call it, a guard. So like, and I mean that in a literal and metaphorical sense, right,
you can set life things up to be more careful. But I'm also strongly suspective, suspecting
that and we'll talk about this, I think with David in a couple of weeks,
the future is not going to be like now, probably. I don't, and I don't envision a
future where I get old and decrepit. One way or another, I don't see that happening.
I see us either all not being in meat suits. I see meat suits lasting forever or being super
safe or regenerating, or I see the world on fire. Like those are, I think the three most
likely outcomes in fire in various different outcomes. So like the idea that we're still
going to be working 40 hour days and you know, doing all the things like we do now in 50 years
blows my mind. I don't think, I think that's extremely unlikely. I don't know. I mean,
I also think, I don't know, I can't put a likelihood on it because while I agree with all
the things I see about basically how the tech singularity is coming and we're going to be replaced
if we are augmented or augmented. Right. I still, I remember my childhood as a Jehovah's Witness,
as I guess I mentioned every now and then because it was such a major impact on me. But
one of my things that was that, that happened to me as I was leaving the faith is the Jehovah's
Witnesses first predicted the end of the world in 1914 and then again in 1975. And the entire
theology is one of the entire world is going to change drastically within our lifetime.
And so you've heard this spiel before. Yeah. And so, I mean, I knew people who in 1975 thought
the world was going to end. And I saw as I was leaving the faith, a little business card that
was being passed around by like atheists, you know, as, as a, I don't know, a gotcha or whatever.
But it had a little checkmark. I've had a little checkbox. And next to it says, I am 10 years
old. I believe that the world will end in my lifetime. Then it has another checkbox below
that I am 20 years old. I believe the end will world will end in my lifetime. It says,
as you reach the birthday, check it off. And it went all the way down to 100 years. And it was
like, now just imagine all the people that if they had this and filled it out would have, you
know, fully fold filled out cards and died. And I kind of feel like this is the same. I have emotional
echoes of that same sort of thing. Like, yeah, I can definitely see the world changing drastically.
And I donate money to Miri every month. And I am worried about it. But on the other hand,
I'm also remind remembering that there is a chance nothing will change.
Once bitten twice shy kind of thing, right? Right. I don't really know. I mean, you know,
people debate about how much has changed and how much we can expect to change. And all I can say
is that whatever reasons that the Utkowskis and Bostroms have of, you know, of the world have
are better reasons that the world will change than the Joe's witnesses have.
Oh, yeah. Joe's witnesses have fairy tales.
Right. So at the end of the day, these could be deluded, wishful thinking,
you know, optimists or something, right? But there's also a real possibility.
There's, there's, there's for the first time in history, an actual real possibility, right?
Yeah.
I think Utkowsky mentioned somewhere in the sequences that like,
try as they might, or no, it was on the cryonics pitch, you know, 200 years ago,
humanity could have, or, you know, someone could have spent their entire life trying to,
you know, strive for mortality and it wouldn't have done nothing because there's just no hope.
You know, now there's a thin hope to kind of a cryonics.
So like things are changing. And I'm, you know, I don't really have the background
knowledge or large repertoire of like history, either life history or known reading history to
like draw from, but I get the very strong impression that we're at a new kind of age.
We're on the cusp, you know, well, you know, Sagan talked about this in the 80s, you know,
like we, we are at this turning point in history. And things could be, he said it differently than
than the point I'm making. He was talking about how the very same technology that we have,
I think his phrasing was like, it says, if there was a God who gave us these tools,
he's talking about nuclear weapons and nuclear power, who gave us these things and gave us the
choice, we could go to the stars and colonize the universe, or we could blow ourselves up and die
on our stupid little rock. I'm paraphrasing, but we were at that point now with like, you know,
scientific advancement in history, we can actually do stuff. And the world is in a place
where it's never been before. It puts me in this vaguely optimistic hope. But I mean,
regarding aging and stuff too, it doesn't have to be a full, you know, intelligence explosion
singularity to stop that, right? It could be Aubrey de Grey's, you know, life extension
style thing, right? So just continually riding the wave of life extension improvements.
And, you know, if that means that I live in a 55 year old body for 120 years till we get
cool, cool new ones, then that's fine. Or, you know, backup worst case scenario or second to
worst case scenario, I end up being declared legally dead and hope that at some point I get
woken up, right? So I don't know. We'll talk, I think it'll be more fun to speculate about the
future. We'll get David. He's eloquent and smart. He'll have something fun to say here, but I don't
have, maybe if I actually sat and thought about it, I'd be filled with dread and anxiety. But
right now I'm just like, you know, pretty sure things are gonna be okay. I'll try and take care
of myself. I've been trying to go to the gym. I've been slacking the last couple of weeks. It's
been stressful. But, you know, for the first time, like really, since like, junior high, I've been
working out regularly, which is nice. Do you listen to podcasts or something when you work out?
I used to always watch the Daily Show and the Colbert Report. That would have been perfect.
Oh, that was wonderful. Those were good times. That was ideal for conditions. Yeah. And then,
you know, Stuart left the Daily Show and Colbert Report folded and now I sometimes watch the Daily
Show with Trevor Noah. It's not quite as good. And I still haven't found something else to take
the Colbert Report's place. I mean, he does his own, he does that new show, the Late Show,
but it's not the same. No, it's not. Sometimes I watch Steven Universe, sometimes my Little Pony.
I got into Atlanta recently, but Atlanta is so visually gorgeous. I don't want to take my eyes
off the screen for too long, you know? Sure. So I don't know. It's, I need some sort of entertainment
and that is what I do. But I mean, you could rewatch Rick and Morty or something, you know,
fill that time. That's not a bad idea. Because that's not a very like, you need to pay full,
pay full attention show. Well, I mean, it is, but once you've seen it once,
I'll say this, I've seen every episode probably at least five times of Rick and Morty.
Holy shit. That's kind of high. That's kind of how I watch TV. Okay. It's, it's dumb. I real,
I was, we were talking before we got on the show that like, I mean, I, I don't use my free time well
at all. I don't engage in new projects. I don't better myself at my job. I want to, you know,
I want to get better at the things that I need to do to excel at my career. And I'm not doing that.
Instead, I'll rewatch, you know, Brooklyn Nine-Nine or, you know, other, you know, not even like
