perfectly. Exactly.
For me, I'm like, all right, you don't need to do this long-winded 10-minute explanation just to
make your point. Anyway, you had feedback.
Yeah, I'll paraphrase real quick. I didn't go through all of these yet, but
Mordinnomail, who is Matt Freeman from the Awesome Daily Planet podcast, he co-hosts on there once
in a while and he co-hosts full-time We've Got Ward, which I strongly recommend for everybody.
He said that he's read 12 rules of 12 rules for life and he'll give the Steel Man of Peterson,
which sounds actually a lot like Scott Alexander's summary. I'm going to ask him if he read that,
but basically, I'll skip like the points from the 12 rules for life and just make the general
Peterson point that, you know, he'll give some example, usually from like a story from the
Bible or something, which again, just pause, sorry, Matt, but it's like, I still have a hard time
taking it that seriously because he has this whole bastardized version of truth so that you
can say, oh yeah, you know, the Cain and Abel thing happened. It's true because it's useful to have
that life metaphor. And I don't know if he said those two sentences in a row, but that is exactly
the kind of thing that I think he's trying to get at. And somewhere in there, he's weaseling in the
truth of his particular religion, which is stomach shit, but anyway, he'll make some, you know,
the point of Cain and Abel, which isn't just some psychopath killing his brother, you know, it's
the whole idea of a man who resents his brother so much that he murders him, but it resonates
metaphorically with a timeless message about how it's easy to come to resent someone that you
should love when you feel that the universe has unjustly rewarded them and withheld your
justice arts from you. So like, that's a really good reading of that. And you wrote a really
impacting story from the Cain and Abel thing that I really liked. Oh, you wrote that? Oh, yeah.
Oh, cool. Years ago. All right. Yeah, I never got it published, so I didn't think you'd read it.
You put it somewhere? I once asked for feedback from me. Possibly it was on Facebook before I
had the full writers group. Oh, yeah. Hey, anyone want to read this? Maybe help me make it better.
Did that ever make it online? No, no. Oh, well, if it did, people should read it. But since you're
hiding it, then they can't. So I thought it was fun. Okay. And it was a different kind of take,
but it made the which one killed the other person Cain killed his brother. It made Cain's perspective
really fun. So anyway, not what Peterson was getting at. And that's a bit of a digression.
But I think about maybe maybe putting it online at some point then. Why not? I think it was good.
You thought it was good? Yeah. All right. I thought it was really cool. Okay. Well,
I mean, it was a different take, but it humanized it and it made it fun. Yeah. So I mean, my since
writers never know if what they actually wrote is any good or not. My way of judging it is,
will someone give me money for it? And if no one gives me money for it, I'm like, obviously,
this isn't very good. And I should hide it from the rest of the world. You could publish it in
your next series of short stories. I could. And then only sell those or something. I don't know.
Yeah. But then, you know, it's not that way. No one else read the story and said,
this is good enough. I'll give you a few hundred dollars for the rights to publish it, you know?
So, hmm. Well, I enjoyed it. Oh, that's worth. I know that's free and doesn't,
doesn't, you can't, you can't pay your pay your pay your mortgage on on complements, but you can't
fucking pay your mortgage with writing either. Are you shitting me? You can buy a few dinners. It's
just, it's just the stamp of approval, you know? Fair enough. Since money B is the unit of caring,
that is how I know that it was good enough that if someone was willing to part with their hard-earned
money to publish it. And, and so it's not that the money is needed. I have this nice accounting
gig. It's just that that's how I know it's actually worth something. I don't know. We talked about
reading that. I know this is another aside, but that's what happens when it's just the two of us.
Utopia Law. That was published for free. That was amazing. Well, no, no, no, no. That was put
online for free. Strange Horizons pays professional rates for their stories. Oh, yeah. Okay. Well,
I didn't pay for it and I enjoyed it. Right. But yeah, the author, I guess, made money on it. So,
that's good because it was fun. Yeah. All right. So anyway, last side note before I get back to
Matt's comment, he points out that, you know, old stories have a lot of wisdom.
Sorry. Last aside, then I'll get back to it. I challenge that assumption or that assertion.
Some old stories have some wisdom and some have a lot. Many of them are completely pointless and
nothing to do with anything. What is the, what is the wisdom in lot fucking his daughters or
in, you know, Jesus killing that fig tree? I'm sure somebody's made some stuff. Like,
there's a lot of weird pointless shit in the Bible too, right? Yeah. The whole obsession
with foreskins and, you know, all those poor dead animals. Like the advantage that old stories have
is that everyone knows them and so you can refer to them and then make whatever point you want.
That's fair. Yeah. So, it's not that they have a lot of wisdom, it's that they have a lot of
shared inferential knowledge. Everyone knows them. Right. And I think that's something that
Peterson makes as a platform of his thing. Me having not read any of his stuff properly,
just from what I've heard, that his whole thing is like all these stories came about from humanity
trying to make sense of chaos and that's where all the stuff comes from. Okay. And in his weird
bullshit sense, they're true because of that, but it's mainly just, you know, this is the distillation
of our wisdom and it came together in these myths. Also, the sense you got to make out of chaos when
you're a sheep herding society is vastly different from the chaos that you got to make sense out of
when you're a, you know, a modern interconnected world living in a city kind of. We have these
weird economies where we go and do what seems like pointless nothingness for our entire lives and
get paid good money for it. And I'm like, I juggled numbers. Most of my life, I've been juggling
numbers. I do the same goddamn thing every month. And yet somehow this is valuable enough that people
are like, yeah, we need you to do this. Here's a bucket of money. I'm like, okay, I can keep doing
it, but you don't feel like I just, I got done renovating my basically done. I still got a little
bit left, but I got done renovating my house just very recently. Right. And that was fucking
fulfilling because you come in here every day and there's a little bit more done and you see the
fruits of your labor every time you come home. Yeah, there's paint on the walls now where there
were shit on the walls earlier. There's hardwood floor down where before it was carpet that had
been peed on, you know, and just like you make the world around you better and you can see it.
Whereas when you're just toiling away at the office job, it doesn't feel like you're doing
anything. Maybe we're the target demographic for Peterson's 12 rules for life because I think,
I mean, from what I got from Scott Alexander's review is that it helps you do that more in your
life if you're the kind of person that you can get wisdom from that. So anyway, Matt says that
Peterson does this a lot. He pulls some psychologically resonant moral out of a biblical
story or fairy tale and then shows how that explains some bizarre facet of human behavior.
And generally he's right or at least the explanation feels sufficiently plausible.
Perhaps this is because every time he uses a story to highlight a new flavor of human evil,
you automatically reflect on yourself and see that you've absolutely been there
and you've absolutely seen that evil. And the conscious recognition of that rejection of evil
is a step toward like Scott Alexander recognized being a better person. So like then in parentheses
here he's got, there's a level that this book is therapy forcing you to go beyond the abstract.
Yes, people sure do have a lot of evil in them that tends to create their own suffering to
hear us six times in my life. I've created a hell for myself through lack of moral conviction.
The 12 rules are practically banal and almost all translate into literal platitudes. Take care
of yourself, pursue meaning, not happiness. Take responsibility for yourself, hold others
responsible for their actions or they won't respect you. Don't lie, fix your own life before
you presume to fix others or before you try to get political or like Scott pointed out, you know,
suffering is bad. So fairly standard, almost stereotypical advice to expect from a stern
father figure. But Peterson makes you understand or at least feel that you fail to live up to these
seemingly simple basic guidelines of moral behavior, then you're complicit in the construction of
your own personal hell. Because life is suffering in chaos, it's only through diligence and effort
that you can steer your soul through it and find meaning in order. And there's something deep within
people that simultaneously doesn't want to hear that and deeply needs to. I mean, maybe his book
does that. But from what I saw of his, you know, interviews and other videos that I saw, he does
not do that in person. So one thing that I can say from still having not read any of his stuff,
and I've talked earlier with Enoch that I'm a pretty slow reader and the 12 rules have
been pretty low on my bucket on my list. But honestly, I'm getting enough good reviews from it
for people like Scott Alexander and David and Matt that like, maybe I need to read this book.
So maybe I'll check it out. Generally self-help books read pretty fast too.
Yeah, maybe. I'm not sure how big it is, or if it's even classically a self-help book. And I
imagine I'll find all the, if he's half as long-winded of a writer as he is a talker,
then it's going to drive me nuts. But maybe he's more, I think Scott Alexander said,
maybe he just has a good editor. So yeah, it's, at the very least, I've been given more pause.
Now I've got two data points that people that I know personally, who's intellect side trust,
who think that there's a lot to be gleaned here. I'll notice Matt that you dodge the question of
is Peterson a cool dude? You just talked about his book. So thanks for that. If you want to weigh
in on that. Wait, why do we care if he's a cool dude or not? Because like, he, I think he first
came into public prominence through like, challenging Canada's law that, through a
fairly understandable interpretation, you could be held as hate speech by not calling somebody
by their preferred pronouns. And he's against that. So he's like, no, I'm not going to let
someone, you know, basically control my thoughts and actions through being a bully. I don't think,
and to be charitable, I don't think that he thinks that is the intention of most people wanting
non gendered pronouns for themselves. But it is the kind of language weapon that is employed
in totalitarian things. And like Alexander points out in his thing, you know, there's a
big kind of running joke that he's afraid of this, you know, neo postmodernist Marxist conspiracy
taking over the world kind of thing. So this is the kind of weapon they would employ.
Well, I also really dislike, I mean, I know this comes up a lot, but these laws that are
basically never enforced, except for when the government wants to fuck someone for whatever
reason. And then there's the fact that everyone is committing all these felonies all the time,
and you can't help it because fucking everything is illegal now. It's just we had another one of
those. Yeah, but I mean, this was this was expanding the definition of hate speech. Yeah,
which I mean, it wasn't like a whole new cloth law. It was just like, no, hate speech is, you know,
calling someone a faggot and not calling them their preferred pronouns or something, right?
I'm assuming that wasn't exactly how it was written in the law, but something like that,
right? Well, it's kind of hard to accidentally call someone a faggot, too.
Were you using that? No, no, but we're using the wrong pronouns. It's quite easy to do
accidentally. I think insistently refusing. Okay, right. So like, you know, there's a person at
my work who prefers they them pronouns. And, you know, if my if their boss was like insistent
on calling them a gendered one, and they were like, can you not? And they insisted something
that that boss is being a huge dick, right? I think we could all agree. But I think that
the whole point of this, like adding this, and I don't have a position on this Canada law,
it's probably a bad idea. I don't like restricting free speech either. But I can't
relate with this person who doesn't like gender pronouns, because I don't have, I think I've
talked about a sense of gender at all. I think it's like not being able to see a color that
other people can see. I just I don't have a I don't have on my radar, which I've been talking more
and more to people. And this seems to be a very common thing in the rationalism sphere. I don't
know. Is there anyone in the rationalist society who has a gender that they feel strongly? I don't
know. Okay, I haven't talked about it with very many people. But for the few that I have, all of
them are like, Yeah, I guess I'm kind of cis, because that's just how I was born. But like,
I haven't I haven't met anyone who is who actually identifies with their gender yet.
I thought cis was your sexuality. Or no, that's, I don't know. Yeah, no, cis is your gender.
Yes. Straight is your sexuality. Another thing too, is I was at a coffee shop once and I overheard
like these, you know, excited college girls taking, you know, some humanities studies class,
it was like gender studies or something. And they're like, Oh, my God, we just learned about
like the 27 different genders that there are. And I'm like, I have no idea what you guys are
talking about. There are like 27. That sounds like, you know, I wonder how different they could
all be. She's like, I could get that there are two colors that I can't see or something.
Are there 27 different colors I can't see? Maybe. But that's a lot. So I'm guessing it's just,
you know, different expressions of this thing I don't have. Maybe it's like a sense of smell,
and they can smell all the things that can't smell any of them. So I can't even relate to the one
thing that they're talking about. But anyway, the other thing with my perception of Peterson,
so like, aside from the fact that he has, I couldn't find good citations, although I did
find a couple, they were in the comments of the Slate Star codex post of review on 12 rules for
life, that like, the university wrote him a letter saying, look, we've got a lot of kids
complaining that you wouldn't like address them by their proper, by their preferred pronouns.
And, you know, you're making them uncomfortable, you know, who cares if they feel like they're
being coddled or whatever. Or if you feel like they're being coddled, like, it's respect them,
that's what they want. And we're not asking you, you know, to, you know, do a lot, just,
it's kind of like, um, I don't know, if I constantly mispronounced your name,
in a way that, you know, what, if I called, I can't think of a good way to do it. But like,
or if you called me Steve, and I prefer Steven, and it bugged me a little, it's like, it doesn't
take that much for you to add that N. In fact, at some point, you're doing it to be a dick. So
like, knock it off, especially if you're a teacher. So like, you know, apparently he didn't want to
stand down to that. And I don't know the full context on all that. As far as I know, if someone
can point me to a source where someone is like, yeah, I'm one of those students, and he was a
complete should head to me, point that out to me, I'd be curious to see it. I didn't find anything
quite like that. But that and the fact that he seems to give, you know, people that a lot of us
don't like, you know, like, all right, Nazi style people, a lot of ammunition, and be like, here's
this intellectual who says a lot of the things that I agree with. And, you know, let me, let me
let me caveat that because you can, you can have that about, you know, people I do respect like
Sam Harris. So like, I don't think you can be held morally accountable for some of the people that
agree with some of the things you say. But if you're getting a large following of people, if I
suddenly got a lot of friends in the alt right, I'd wonder if I'm saying the right thing. Right.
If I found people holding up quotes, I don't, I'm making this up, but maybe there are, you know,
if someone's holding up a quote, something that I said at one of these rallies, they'd be like,
I should take a step back to self value weight. That's not how I want to be inspiring. Right.
Okay. And I, so far as I know, he's not stepping away from that. I think he's decried it, but he
also spends a lot of time decrying the left like it's also popular. So I mean, I'm kind of worried
because I am in favor of eugenics, not in the murdering people way, but in the making the babies
that we have in the future have better genes, you know, and there's a lot of people in the horrible
positions that are also fans of eugenics. And I would not want someone to judge me harshly,
just because I'm saying that this thing of having, of getting rid of, you know,
genes that fuck people's lives and bodies over is a good thing, which I do think it is a good
thing. I would hate to have people associate negative things with me because the Nazis also
say that. Yeah, that's true. And I don't really know what to say there. I guess, you know,
someone could take Harris's criticism of Islam and be like, there, here's, here's our, our well
respected intellectual who is also anti Muslim. And I'm going to run with that out of context. I
think the hard part is I'm trying to find things in context. And he's also notoriously hard to
quote, which I find super annoying. So yeah, yeah, it's because he doesn't ever say anything that
makes it like a sense. Yeah. So I think I'm trying to read through maths to comment as we're talking
this next one here, as we're talking, and I'm trying to see if he's defending Peterson or just the
book. Um, a little bit. Oh, I do have a question here, Matt. You said that
