of the rest of us and killed us through movie magic because
reasons, or he didn't actually shoot himself.
He just did it in his head, but then why is he rasping?
So that was, all right, that's how I took the end.
All right, the movie was fine.
Twin Peaks is weird.
That's my impression.
I'll be willing to check it out.
Well, I think, you know, moving past all this Peterson business,
I think that I'm sold enough to check it out.
Yeah.
So that was fun.
Thanks for engaging me so much on that.
And I will have David on in a while.
I'm sure Peterson will come up because he's one of the other
same people that I know who likes him.
Maybe by that time, I'll have read some of his stuff.
So yeah, I think he's a fan, but some of Peterson's popularity
among groups of people that we're not huge fans of has given him
pause not to like throw his character out, but I'm paraphrasing
to kind of do away with some of that like idol worship stuff.
I think, and I can't remember if David said this or not,
he kind of found Peterson's stuff kind of right
when he needed to hear it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I totally get it.
You know, it'd be weird if people were running around
quoting Udkosky at alt-right rallies, and I don't know
how I'd process that information.
Right.
Like, all right, I got to step back and assess.
I don't see how you possibly could though.
Let's find a quote that we can put under a picture
of the Tiki tortures and not put that online, just laugh.
I mean, he's got such a, his writing just comes,
has such joy in it.
It's just this aura that you can't associate with alt-right.
Yeah.
That's fair.
And you can do sound bites of Harris that you totally
could put on a, on a poster.
So yeah.
All right.
You're good.
Yeah.
Well, that was interesting.
Thanks, everybody.
All right.
Sorry to have engaged us for so long on side notes.
I wanted to talk about, unless you've got other stuff,
but you, you talked about, you sent me that link for
that Google AI assistant.
Yeah.
But no, there is one listener feedback I want to do.
Okay.
This is from Zeek Aran, and this is on the Get in School
episode.
He says, at first I agreed with Enios, because they said
a few words that made me think we were thinking the same
thing.
But the more I listened, the less I agreed.
I thought he was going more in the direction of Paul
Graham's thoughts.
And then here he quotes Paul Graham.
Public school teachers are in much the same position
as prison wardens.
Wardens' main concern is to keep the prisoners on the
premises.
They also need to keep them fed, and as far as possible,
prevent them from killing one another.
Beyond that, they want to have as little to do with the
prisoners as possible, so they leave them to create
whatever social organization they want.
From what I've read, the society that the prisoners
create is warped, savage, and pervasive.
It is no fun to be at the bottom of it.
In Outline, it was the same at the schools I went to.
The most important thing was to stay on the premises.
While there, the authorities fed you, prevented
overt violence, and made some effort to teach you
something.
But beyond that, they didn't want to have too much to do
with the kids.
Like prison wardens, the teachers mostly left us to
ourselves.
And like prisoners, the culture we created was barbaric.
Paul even brings up how pre-industrial young adults
spend their time happily in apprenticeship, which
Inyash thinks is a solution.
That or letting kids drop out.
I'm not sure what great results he's expecting
from that, though.
Inyash, what do you think America will look like
if we allow students to drop out?
What good things will come of this?
Do you have any experience with alternative students
that are working to get a GED outside of the
general public education system?
Yeah, Inyash.
All right, so I read that because I very much
agree with that Paul Graham essay.
And I think part of the problem, I wasn't feeling
very good about that schooling episode when we
were done with it, because I think I was trying to
tackle too much in one episode.
One of the things that I was wanting to touch on was
that the schooling doesn't seem to provide us very
much in terms of what we want in educational outcomes.
But the other thing I wanted very much to say was
exactly what Paul Graham had said, because that was
very much on my mind as well.
And I think I actually sent that link to Zeke,
or maybe we stumbled across it independently.
But in either case.
Which link?
The one Paul Graham essay.
Oh, yeah.
That was Why Nerds Are Unpopular.
Yes.
And I read that this week.
It was pretty fun.
Yeah, all of his essays are pretty damn good.
But yeah, that was one of my favorites of his in
the top three.
And I think I kind of conflated two separate
things in that episode and therefore didn't hit
on either one as thoroughly as I would have
liked to.
And I think I did a disservice to both of them as
a result.
But yeah, very much of my and the fact that we had
a teacher on didn't help things because the teacher
kind of has a how are you going to tell someone
that you're friends with that I kind of think
your job is acting a lot like a prison warden and
not caring about how these kids conduct themselves
because I very much had the same experience
that I think this is true in prisons as well and
in in old what is it the court societies of the
kings and such where there is nothing you can do
to contribute to society in a meaningful way.
So all status is reduced to sniping at each other
and pecking and just, you know, who can you tear
down and how can you make yourself look cooler?
But there's literally nothing you can do of value
to make yourself more valuable to society.
So it degenerates into these awful social dynamics
that are just toxic for everyone.
And I think that is a lot of what school is and the
reason I I did want to the reason I promoted letting
kid not forcing kids to go to school anymore is
because partly that would help with the whole
prison warden thing if you aren't forced to be there
it's less prison like and the teachers don't have
this one of their main jobs to keep you on the
premises right they can concentrate on actually
doing things they want to do like teach people
and if someone is not willing to be taught
they can just get the fuck out right then and also
I think it would help prevent this social dynamic
from getting going where kids are bored they have
nothing to do there's nothing they can do to be
valuable and so they form these awful societies of
destroying each other and that that is mainly why I
was promoting that because I was one of the kids
that really liked school and liked the learning
aspect of school and I would have preferred it
if those people simply were not in school
so I admit it is kind of self-serving of me
to be like get those disruptive asshole people
out of here we don't need them anyway.
I mean a lot of my childhood I mean I don't know
if a lot is conveying the right amount a portion
of my childhood was spent you know dodging bullies
and being careful around you know mean kids
and that sort of thing and those kids probably
didn't want to be at school if they weren't there
I could have focused a lot more on other stuff.
Yeah I think the kids who don't want to be there
make it worse for everyone else by a large amount
yeah which is why I want them out of there.
My aunt who is a joyful and you know I think happy
and fulfilled person who likes her job I think
that she, Audrey was that her name?
Yes.
I called her autumn for like the first half of the podcast
I felt like a dick.
Audrey didn't, I don't think she saw a prison guard
as part of her job title.
No.
Whereas I think my aunt totally does
together those bastards need to be kept in checked
I think is what she might say but I say I preface
that she you know is a joyful person who likes her job
because that's also true but I think she's also like
well as long as they're here yeah we need this discipline
we need to keep these guys in line because you know
they're making hard on all the kids who want to be here
which the fact that I phrased it that way
