at least at those altitudes.
Here is a picture of earth's energy budget.
I mentioned we're warm by the sun, about half of the sunlight eventually gets to the surface.
The thing that prevents it all from reaching the surface are clouds.
Other parts of America, like New Jersey now, are covered with clouds, so you don't get
any sunlight directly.
Some of it is absorbed, but the half that does reach the ground on average heats the
ground, and so the ground gets hotter.
You can notice that in the afternoon if you go out, and if you're a gardener like me,
you can put your hands in the soil, and it's nice and warm, makes the corn grow.
And that has to be released if you keep piling heat up, it gets hotter and hotter and hotter.
So it's released by radiation to space, which is that red arrow going up.
So the ground transports solar heating upward, near the surface, for the first few kilometers.
A good fraction of that heat is not carried by radiation at all, it's completely immune
to anything you do to CO2, but once you get up to 10 kilometers or so, most of that heat
transport goes into radiation, you know, this infrared radiation I mentioned.
And by the way, I have this running now.
The outside air is 400, and I'm not sure you can see this, so I'll read it out to you.
It's 580 in here.
So what this means, this is not a whole lot higher than the 400 outside.
In lunch, we had this out, and it was 1,000 where we were having lunch.
But it makes the point that CO2 levels are never stable, you know.
People are, you know, panicking about one or two parts per million of CO2.
This is, oh, now it's at 608, that's probably because I breezed on it, you know, and hot
air sets it off.
Things are interesting too, you know, I sometimes take it out on my back porch, and, you know,
at the end of summer day, the CO2 levels on my back porch drop to maybe 300, you know,
way below the outside air, and that's because the trees and grass in my backyard have sucked
most of the CO2 out of the air.
And then if I get up early the next morning and I look at the meter, it's up to 600.
So just from morning to night, CO2 doubles in the air, doubles in half, doubles in half,
at least during the growing season, that's quite common.
And we have these hysterics about CO2 increasing by 30 or 40 percent.
It's amazing.
Okay, so why the frenzy over CO2?
The frenzy over CO2 is because it is a greenhouse gas.
That is true.
CO2 is a greenhouse gas.
This is a somewhat deceptive picture, but what it shows in red is sunlight, and the horizontal
scale on that top panel is the wavelength of the sunlight.
So sunlight is typically about a half a micron, a half a millionth of a meter in wavelength.
That's green light, the color of green leaves.
And the thermal radiation that cools the earth is that blue curve to the right of the upper
panel.
And that's much longer wavelength.
That's typically around 10 microns, so it's 20 or 30 times longer wavelengths than the
wavelengths from the sun.
And it turns out that the sun's energy can get through the earth's atmosphere very easily.
So essentially all sunlight, or at least 95 percent if there are no clouds, gets to the
surface and warms it.
But the surface trying to send radiation back out to space is unable to get it freely to
space because various gases, most importantly water vapor, which is shown as the third panel
down, and CO2, which is the fourth panel down, intercept a lot of that radiation and keep
it from freely escaping to space.
So this keeps earth's surface temperature quite a bit warmer than it would be about
20 or 30 degrees.
This earth would be an ice cube if it were not for water vapor and CO2.
And when I say water vapor, you should understand that I really mean water vapor and clouds,
the condensed form of water.
So clouds are at least as important as greenhouse gases, and they're very poorly understood
to this day.
Those gases were discovered in the 1850s by this man, this is John Tyndall, who was
an Anglo-Irish physicist working in London.
And he was the first one who discovered that water vapor or carbon dioxide or ether or alcohol
intercepts thermal radiation as is appropriate for Anglo-Irish men.
His source of heat was a tea kettle.
So he had this hot tea kettle boiling on a stove, and then he had a pipe through which
the radiation from the tea kettle could go.
And he'd noticed that certain gases, like CO2, or especially water vapor, would block
most of that heat radiation, whereas the normal atmospheric gas is nitrogen and oxygen would
not.
So we now call the gases that block the greenhouse gases, and CO2 is indeed a greenhouse gas.
It's not a very good greenhouse gas at today's concentration, so let me show you that.
This is something I want you to remember.
This is an important slide.
So there's a lot of history here, and so there are two pictures here.
The top picture is Max Planck, and Max Planck was the great German scientist who discovered
quantum mechanics.
And amazingly, quantum mechanics goes back to greenhouse gas physics, thermal radiation,
just what we're talking about today, and just what climate fanatics don't understand
yet 100 years after Planck.
But Planck understood it very well, and Planck was the first one who was able to show why
the radiation from warm bodies has the shape it has.
On this picture to the left of Planck and below his Fortschild, I'll have more to say
about Fortschild in a minute, is a smooth blue curve, and what that is, again, left
to right is wavelength or the frequency in this case of light, thermal radiation, and
up is the thermal power that's going out to space.
And so if there were no greenhouse gases, the radiation going to space would be that
Planck curve, that blue curve there, and that would be the radiation that keeps the earth
cool.
In fact, that's not what you observe if you look down from a satellite, and we have lots
of measurements now.
What you see is something that looks a lot like the black curve that's below with lots
of jags and wiggles in it.
And that curve was first calculated by Karl Schwartzschild, whose picture is below Planck.
Karl Schwartzschild was an officer in the German Army in World War I, and he did some
of his most creative work in the trenches on the eastern front facing Russia.
And he, in fact, produced one of the first analytic solutions to Einstein's general theory
of relativity while he was there on the front lines.
And alas, he died before he got home, not from Russian bullets, but from an autoimmune
disease, which was really tragic.
But anyway, Schwartzschild was the theorist who figured out how to calculate how the real
earth works with greenhouse gases in it, and it's those jagged black lines.
Now the important point here is that you notice there's also a red line on this chart.
What the red line is, is what would happen if you double the CO2 concentration from today's
level.
So right in the middle of these curves, I'm sorry I don't have a laser pointer here, but
you can see a gap, and that's due to CO2 absorbing radiation that would otherwise cool
the earth.
If you double the amount of CO2, you don't double the size of that gap.
You just go from the black curve to the red curve, and you can barely see the difference.
So the message I want you to understand, which practically no one really understands, is
that doubling CO2 almost doesn't make any difference.
It goes from that black curve to the red curve, and on the basis of this, we're supposed
to give up our liberties.
We're supposed to give up the gasoline engines of our automobiles.
We're supposed to accept dictatorial power by Bernie Sanders and Acasio Cortez because
of the difference between the red and the black curve.
You know, don't let anyone convince you that that is a good bargain.
It is a terrible bargain.
The doubling actually does make a little difference.
It decreases the radiation to space by about three watts per square meter.
In comparison, the total radiation to space is about 300, so it's a 1% effect.
It's actually a little less than that.
And that's with no clouds.
Clouds make everything even less threatening.
Finally, let me point out there is a green curve.
That's what happens if you take all the CO2 out of the atmosphere.
No one knows how to do that, and of course, we'd all die because plants die if you take
all the CO2 out of the atmosphere.
But what this curve is telling you is the greenhouse effect of CO2 is already saturated.
That's a jargon in science.
That means it's done all the green house warming it can already, practically, and adding doubling
it practically doesn't make any difference.
You could co-drupal it, it also practically makes no difference.
So the CO2 effects are strongly, strongly saturated.
Now let me move on.
You can take that tiny difference between those curves that I showed you, the red and
the black curve, and calculate the warming that should happen.
I was one of the first to do this, actually, in 1982.
I was the co-author of one of the first books.
And you can see on the right panel there is my calculation, and lots of other people's
calculations sense.
It's a bar graph of the warming per decade that people have calculated.
The red bar is what's actually observed.
And on the right is, I think, for 10 years, and on the left is 20 years.
But in both cases, the takeaway message is the predicted warmings, which everybody's
frantic about, are grossly over-predicting the warming compared to observation, which
is the red bars.
So the observed warmings have been extremely small compared to computer calculations over
any interval that you look.
So it's clear that all of our policies are based on the models that you see here that
don't work.
The models don't work.
And I think we sort of know why they don't work, but no one is willing to admit it.
Here is another demonstration, again, of that.
The red curve here on the bottom is the year.
So I think it starts in 1975, approximately, and it goes through 1925, because some of
them are predictions.
So the top curve is predictions by the international climate alarm establishment.
And the bottom curves are the blue and the green curves are observations.
And so the blue circles are measured by balloons.
You probably know that every day thousands of balloons are launched around the world
in North America, Europe, Asia, Southern Hemisphere, and they measure the temperature
as you go up.
So we know what the temperature of the atmosphere has been doing from these really good balloon
records, and it's the blue curves.
And the warming observed from balloons is about a third of the warming that has been
predicted by models.
And let me also add, nobody knows how much of this warming that's observed is due to
CO2.
There's good reason to think most of it would be there even without an increase in CO2,
because we're coming out of the long, little ice age, and we've been coming out of that
since the early 1800s, where it got much, much colder.
And the green curve is measurements from satellites, very much like the measurements
of your temporal scanning thermometer.
You can look down from a satellite and measure the temperature of the atmosphere.
And so the satellites and the balloons agree with each other, and they do not agree with
the models.
This is a nice work by John Christie at the University of Alabama, Huntsville.
Okay, so the alleged harm from CO2 is from warming.
And the warming observed is much, much less than predictions.
In fact, if the warming is as small as we're observing, it's almost certainly beneficial.
It gives a little bit longer growing seasons.
You can ripen crops a little bit further north than you could before.
And so there is completely good news in terms of the temperature directly.
But there are even, there's even better news, because in reality, by historical standards,
we're living in a CO2 famine today.
So let me show you that.
So this is a picture of our best estimates of past levels of CO2.
So the vertical scale, our CO2, is the amount of that CO2 in the past was greater than it
is today.
And so you can see on that scale that over most of the past, CO2 levels have been five
times, ten times, even 20 times greater than today.
And during this entire period, this is from, this is the so-called funerosoic, you know,
since the Cambrian era, when we have good fossil records.
So we know pretty well what life was doing during that time from the sediments.
And all of this period with much higher CO2 levels, life flourished on Earth, and in general,
it flourished better when there was more CO2.
So plants really would prefer to have two, three, four times more CO2.
