Our next speaker is something of a rebel, I think, in the scientific community.
William Happer is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Physics at Princeton University.
And prior to coming to Princeton, he taught at Columbia University and served as Director
of the Columbia Radiation Laboratory.
He has some government experience, some recent and some from about 30 years ago.
He's served as Director of Energy Research in the U.S. Department of Energy from 1991
to 1993, and then most recently, from 2018 to 2019, he was Deputy Assistant to the President
and Senior Director for Emerging Technologies at the White House National Security Council.
He told me at dinner last night that he's more convinced than ever after his most recent
service that there is a deep state and it's much worse than it was 30 years ago.
He's a co-founder of the nonprofit CO2 Coalition, which seeks to educate policymakers and the
public about the vital contribution made by carbon dioxide to our lives and our economy.
And I just want to say I'm also in favor of carbon dioxide.
He's a co-founder of Magnetic Imaging Technologies Incorporated, which specializes in the use
of laser polarized noble gases for magnetic resonance imaging.
He also invented the Sodium Guide Star, which is used in astronomical adaptive optics systems
to correct for the degrading effects of atmospheric turbulence on imaging resolution.
And I'm hoping he's going to tell me at least what that means.
The author of more than 200 peer-reviewed scientific papers, he's a member of a number
of professional societies and associations.
His topic today is how to think about climate change.
Please welcome Dr. William Happer.
Well, I certainly appreciate the honor of speaking to this gathering, getting to know
a little bit more about Hillsdale College, which of course I knew about before, but not
in such detail as I've learned over the last day or two.
The title of my talk is How to Think About Climate Change, and let me see if this clicker
works.
I hope it works.
Good.
Okay.
So the first thing to, the best way to think about the frenzy over climate is it's a kind
of a modern version of the medieval crusades.
You remember that the motto of the crusaders was Deus volt, God wants it.
And it's hard to pick a better virtue signaling slogan than that.
But so far, most of the climate enthusiasts have not gone that far.
Some have actually, they claim they're doing God's work.
Because decades of propaganda, many Americans perhaps, including some of you here today,
think there really is a climate emergency.
Those who think that way, in many cases they mean very well, but they've been mislaid by
decades of misinformation.
So as a scientist who actually knows a lot about climate, and I set up many of our climate
research centers when I was at the Department of Energy in the early 1990s, I can assure
you that there is no climate emergency.
There will not be a climate emergency.
And crusades have always ended badly.
They've brought discredit to the supposed righteous cause.
They've brought hardship and death to multitudes, and policies to address this phony climate
of urgency will cause great damage to American citizens and to their environment.
But it's heating up on February 4th, Bernie Sanders and Alexandra Acasio-Cortez and Congressman
Blumenauer from Oregon introduced legislation, I quote from Blumenauer's website, legislation
mandating the declaration of a national climate emergency.
The National Climate Emergency Act directs the President of the United States to declare
a national climate emergency and mobilize every resource at the country's disposal to
halt, reverse, mitigate, and prepare for the consequences of this climate crisis.
Well, there isn't a climate crisis.
There will not be a climate crisis.
This is utter nonsense, you say.
It gets worse when you get to the state levels where there's a little less checks and balances.
These are remarks made last week by Charles Ismay, the Undersecretary for Climate Change
in Massachusetts, and it was made to the Vermont Climate Council, so I'll read it to you.
So let me say that, again, 50% of our emissions that need to be reduced come from you, the
person across the street, the senior-owned fixed income.
Right, there's no bad guy left, at least in Massachusetts, to point the finger at, to
turn the screws on.
And you know, to break their wills, so they stop emitting, that's you.
We have to break your will, right?
I can't even say that publicly.
Well, a few days later, Mr. Ismay resigned, and had he not, his governor would have fired
him.
But that's the way crusades are, you know.
This is really not a question of science.
This is a question of a secular religion, for some.
It's a question of money for others.
It's a question of power for others.
But whatever it is, it's not science.
So during the medieval crusades, part of it was against the supposed threat to the holy
sites in Jerusalem, but a lot of it was against local enemies.
So the medieval inquisition really did a job on the poor Cathars and the Waldensians of
southern France and the Mogomills in the Balkans.
And climate fanatics don't know or care any more about the science of climate than these
medieval inquisitions knew or cared about the teachings of Christ.
So just about everyone wants to live in a clean environment.
I do.
I'm sure everyone here does, and this is a photograph.
I hope it shows up on the screen.
I don't see it just yet, of Shanghai.
And that's real air pollution.
You can just barely see the bottle opener building in the back through all the haze.
And some of this is actually due to a burning coal, but a bigger fraction is due to dust
from the Gobi Desert.
They've had this type of pollution in Shanghai since the days of Marco Polo and long before.
And part of it is burning rice fields, the stubble in the fields, which is traditionally
done there.
And this is the kind of thing that I do not support.
I wouldn't want to live in a city like that, and if there's anything to do that will make
it better, I would certainly support that.
But none of this has anything to do with CO2.
CO2 is a gas you can't see, smell, or taste.
Hairbrain schemes to limit emissions of CO2, which is actually beneficial, as I'll explain
a little bit later, will only make it harder to get rid of real pollutants like the pollutant
I showed you in Shanghai.
So let's talk about CO2.
Number one, it's not a pollutant at all.
We breathe out lots of CO2.
Many people are surprised to learn that they exhale about two pounds, a little more than
two pounds of CO2 a day.
So you people in this room are putting out a lot of CO2.
I actually brought a CO2 meter here, which I'm going to turn on.
It takes about 30 seconds to warm up, but we will see what the levels are.
Before I came down here, my wife Barbara and I measured the CO2 on our balcony outside,
and it's about 400 parts per million outside this building.
So this is warming up now, I'll show what the results are here in a minute.
But our breath is not that different from the output of a power plant.
Power plants take in normal air and they burn a fair amount of the oxygen out of the air
in burning coal or natural gas or oil.
And the result that comes out of the stack is mostly the nitrogen that was already there,
a little bit of oxygen that wasn't used up, and water vapor in CO2.
And our breath, except for having a lot more oxygen, so you can give mouth to mouth resuscitation,
you couldn't do it if your breath was like the power plant.
It's very similar to the power plant, it's about 4% CO2, 6% water.
Power plant has a bit more CO2 and a correspondingly less oxygen.
But our breath is definitely not a pollutant, in fact our breathing reflex is entirely determined
by CO2, it's not determined by oxygen at all, it's not a lack of oxygen, it's too much
CO2 that makes you exhale.
This is a picture of my wife Barbara in New Jersey and a new solar farm, and we've just
seen how well solar farms and windmills work in Texas.
And they never did work terribly well, but we have to be grateful for nature, she seems
to have a sense of humor and has taught us a good lesson, I hope, although people seem
to be slow learners.
But the problem with renewable energy solar wind is they take up a lot of space, I preferred
this field when it was nice and green instead of these weedy panels, they're quite weedy
now, this was soon after it was built.
They don't work at all at night, so you need something else to provide power, electrical
power at night, they don't work if it's a cloudy day, they don't work terribly well
in the winter when the sun is low.
So it's pure virtue signaling, they make no economic sense unless you're massively subsidized
by the state and federal governments.
Here is an early wind farm in California, it's beginning to fall to pieces, but all wind
farms fall to pieces, nobody quite knows how we're going to dispose of all of this junk
when it no longer works.
It has much the same problems as solar, you know, when I was a kid, people didn't sit
in front of computer screens all day and look at simulations of the world, but you could
go outside and, you know, look up at the clouds or what the weather was like and in those days
people knew that the wind bloweth as it lists us, you know, sometimes it blows, sometimes
it doesn't and we just saw last week it didn't blow very much and when it was trying to blow
it was blowing on ice top windmill blades and didn't do any good.
So renewable energy is really what I would call the inverse Robin Hood strategy.
You've robbed from the poor to give from the rich.
Utilities are permitted to raise rates because of the capital investments and inefficient
unreliable renewables, they junk fully depreciated coal, gas and nuclear plants all of which
are working beautifully, producing inexpensive reliable energy, but regulated profits are
much less.
So taxpayers subsidize the rich who can afford to lease land for wind and solar farms.
The tax incentives is panned to the upper class and gated communities who can afford
to buy Tesla electric cars with subsidies from the state and federal government, often
subsidies for the electrical power to charge up, you know, their toy and the common people
have little spare income, they pay more and more for the necessities of life in order
to subsidize their betters.
Now you can't spend a lifetime as a professor and not relapse from time to time to giving
a classroom lecture, so you will have to expect to be lectured to now for a few minutes.
And the good thing is there will be no quiz.
But as you try to, those of you who share my view that this climate is serious nonsense,
it helps to know what the facts are.
So I hope I can arm some of you with the real scientific facts.
This is a picture of the overall circulation of the atmosphere and the earth around the
earth.
And the thing that keeps us warm on earth is the sun.
Everybody knows that.
Things warm up when the sun comes up at dawn and it's nice and warm at least in summertime
and the early afternoon it cools off at night.
And the earth is warm mostly in the tropics, the reddish area on this chart here.
That's where the sun is most nearly overhead at noon.
And so there's more solar energy coming in at the tropics than goes out as cooling radiation
to space.
The sun, the earth also radiates and if you've had dinner here at the Marriott, you may set,
maybe you sat under some of the infrared radiators on the outside patios.
So you felt the heat, radiant heat, you can't see it, but you can feel the radiation.
That's where earth radiates out to space.
So we cool, our earth cools by radiating out into very cold space and by warming up
from the sunlight shining during the day, the half of the day.
So climate involves a complicated interplay of the sunlight that warms us, the thermal
infrared radiation that goes out into space and the transport of this heat by both radiation
and by the motion of the air and the water.
For example, I think we all know about the Gulf Stream that carries huge amounts of heat
to northern Europe, even to Russia.
And these currents of air in the atmosphere also carry a lot of heat.
Just where in Phoenix, let me point out that if you look there, you can sort of estimate
where Phoenix is just over the Mexican border.
It's where the color changes from yellow to green.
And this is the descending branch of the Hadley cell, this air that rises up near the equator,
hot air, moist air full of water, so tremendous rainfall down there.
As the air gets really high, 10, 15 kilometers, most of the water has been wrung out, it's
been freeze dried out, and then it heads north or south, and the air that heads north eventually
falls back down to the earth, and typically it falls down over Phoenix.
And over sort of 30 degrees north or 30 degrees south, that's the great desert belts of the
earth.
This is where Sahara is, the Chihuahuan Desert, and to the south, the Kalahari Desert.
And so these are regions of earth which are underneath these cascades of dry air that
was produced in the tropics at the equator and naturally went north.
It's a giant gas turbine, but driven by the sun, and not spinning any windmill blades,
