the Earth has been a lot warmer and it didn't start to boil.
Absolutely.
The reason the models get these huge numbers and mine had the same flaw is because of the
water vapor feedback.
I think the reason that those feedbacks are overestimated, and I've worked personally
on this so I know a lot about it, is that they don't treat clouds correctly at the
same time.
You can't increase water vapor without affecting clouds.
Just a few percent change in cloudiness completely overwhelms any change from CO2 or water vapor.
I mean, we're all familiar with the fact that if it's a hot summer day and a cloud comes
over, it cools down.
If you take that on a global scale, it turns out that there's just exquisite sensitivity
to cloudiness.
Just to follow up on another illusion you made, if there really were this positive feedback,
you can't look at the geological history of the Earth and it could not be as stable.
The climate could not be as stable as the geological record indicates if there were these positive
feedbacks because the temperature would be shooting up and down, up and down all of the
time, for example, because of these changes in solar output I mentioned.
But that's not observed.
The Earth's climate turns out to be remarkably stable.
If there are feedbacks, there are probably negative feedbacks, and they probably involve
clouds as my educated guess.
We have time for one more question.
I appreciate the discussion and the knowledge that you passed on, but when I look at this
issue, though, it's more about marketing and perception than science.
Being retired, I have a chance to read these studies as they're published.
I noticed a little trend where they would make a sort of scientific statement about
climate change, and two or three sentences later, then they go into the projected impacts,
coastal flooding, deserts everywhere and so forth, and the media, of course, only reads
the first paragraph or whatever or whatever they're fed, and so then they publish that
and it just scares the bejesus out of people.
I know I might have relatives that believe this stuff, and you try and explain what you're
telling us, and with new knowledge maybe I can do that, but you can't get through to
these people that are just scared from the perception and the marketing, so what do we
do?
Well, you know, that's sort of the key question because the scientific support for it really
doesn't exist, but so many people are scared now, and so many people have been brainwashed
since childhood.
I know I watched our children and grandchildren in school, and they get an incessant barrage
of the world is coming to an end, you're unlikely to finish your life because you're
going to fry and because your dad's driving an SUV, and you know, there are a fair fraction
of kids who are sufficiently independent thinkers in every generation that they laugh this off,
but they're a lot who take it seriously and they go home, they can't sleep at night, you've
got Greta Thunberg, you know, having hysterics, you know, in front of the mighty of the world,
but she doesn't know anything.
The amazing thing about Greta, you know, those of you who know a little bit about the history
of science, Greta's a great-granddaughter of Sfanti Arrhenius, and Sfanti Arrhenius was
the first person to seriously try to calculate the effects of more CO2, he thought it would
be good for Sweden, he was from, he was a Swedish chemist, and it would have been good
for Sweden, in fact, it is being good for Sweden, Sweden, for example, is getting much
higher forestry yields now than it did 50 years ago because of more CO2, but I think
he would be appalled to see his great-granddaughter, you know, having hysterics in front of the
world for something that he was convinced would be good.
Please join me in thanking Dr. Happer.
