Than we have today.
And you can see plants already responding to that.
Let me show you an example.
This is the greening of the Earth measured from satellites.
So this picture shows areas of the Earth that are getting greener over a 20-year period,
I think.
My eyes aren't good enough to read it, but it's roughly 20 years.
And what you notice is that everywhere, especially in arid areas, the Sahal, you can see the
just south of the Sahara, it's greening dramatically.
The western United States is greening, western Australia is greening, western India is greening.
And this is almost certainly due to CO2.
And the reason this happens is that CO2 allows plants to grow where today, or where 50 years
ago it was too dry.
So plants are now needing less water to grow than they did 50 or 100 years before.
Let me show you another example of what more CO2 does in terms of making plants grow better.
This is a picture of Dr. Sherwood Itza, and it was actually an experiment done here in
Phoenix back in the 80s.
And so this is a pine tree that I think it's a Mediterranean, Eldarica pine.
And on the left is a pine tree growing in the current CO2 levels at that time, which was
about 3, ambient was 380, I believe it says.
And on the right are more and more CO2.
So you can see that the pine trees, the more CO2 you put in them, the faster they grow.
And you can do this with almost any plant, you know, corn, wheat, cotton, they all grow
better with more CO2.
So this is the so-called pollutant that you hear about with the climate emergency.
So let me explain the basics of why that works.
So if you look closely at a plant, take a low-power magnifying glass, you'll see the
leaf is full of little holes, and the little holes are to let carbon dioxide diffuse in
from the air into the moist interior of the leaf, where the leaf with the special enzyme
called rubisco, one of the most ancient enzymes in the world and the most abundant protein
in the world, combines the CO2 with water to make sugar.
And the energy to run this little factory, this chemical factory within the leaf is provided
by sunlight.
Now, the problem with this is if you see this hole, not only is CO2 diffusing in, but there's
a lot more water vapor inside the leaf than there is CO2 in the air outside.
So for every CO2 molecule that diffuses into the leaf, there are 100 water molecules that
diffuse out.
So the plant has this dilemma, engineering dilemma, it has to have holes in its leaf to
get the CO2 that it needs to live, but those same holes desiccate it, they dry it out,
and it of course needs water to live too.
So what is happening all over the world now is plants grow, they're not stupid, they grow
leaves with fewer holes in them, and so there's more CO2 in the air outside, so they don't
need as many holes, but they don't leak as much water either.
So that's why you're seeing the greening of the earth, it's from the plants themselves
taking advantage of CO2 coming back to more historically normal levels.
There's more to say about this.
There's a second important issue, which is that the enzyme I mentioned is called Robisco.
It's very old, it was probably invented on the evolutionary scale three and a half billion
years ago, so extremely ancient, and at that time there was no oxygen in the air.
And so this poor enzyme was designed in a way that makes it poisoned by oxygen.
And so plants today have a hard time when there's not enough CO2 in the air, this enzyme which
is charged to make sugar, instead of making sugar, it grabs from CO2, it grabs an oxygen
and it turns the oxygen into things like hydrogen peroxide and other nasty oxidizing things.
You've heard of antioxidants in your tea, they're to handle this problem and that's
why they're generated.
And so if you have more CO2, this photo respiration is the jargon that goes with that.
That is suppressed and so plants grow a lot better with that.
There's a special type of plant called C4 plants, which includes American corn and sugarcane,
that has partially solved that problem, but they don't compete well with the old fashioned
plants as the CO2 level goes up.
The old fashioned ones without the adaptation out compete these C4 plants.
Well you often, when you raise all these issues, the hard scientific issues with your opponents,
the fanatics, the response is how can you say that 97% of scientists agree that there's
a terrible emergency here that we have to cope with.
Let's see if I can get this back again.
And there are several things you should say.
You should say first of all that in science, truth is not voted on.
It's not like voting on a law.
This is determined by how well your theory agrees with observations and experiments.
I just showed you that the theories of warming are grossly wrong.
They're not even close.
And yet we're making our policy decisions based on these computer models that don't
work.
So that's one point is that it doesn't matter how many people say there's an emergency.
If it doesn't agree with experiment, it's wrong.
And it's definitely wrong.
The second thing is even when people agree in science, people think of science as, you
know, somehow as these incorruptible priestly people.
They're not that at all.
They have all the same faults as everybody else.
And they're frequently wrong.
Good example of that was continental drift.
When I was a student in the 50s, nobody with any self-respect and geology admitted to believing
in continental drift, although it had been proposed by Alfred Wagner, a German scientist
in the 20s and 30s.
And it was based on very good, hard evidence.
One example shown below, there's the fact, for example, that Africa and South America
and India and Arctic fit together like a jigsaw, as though you've taken a jigsaw apart.
So that's pretty suggestive, I would say.
And secondly, if you look at the fossils in these continents from 300 million years ago,
400 million years ago, they go smoothly from South America to Africa or from Africa to
India or even into Antarctica.
You find fossils of the same organisms, even though there's thousands of kilometers of
sea separating them today.
And so that again suggests that these were connected.
But nevertheless, in spite of this quite persuasive evidence, Wagner was scorned and mocked all
his life.
He died falling into a crevasse in Greenland, exploring, looking for fossils, sort of a
sad ending.
But he was absolutely right.
And the clincher actually came when we finally declassified the World War II North Atlantic
magnetic anomaly data, which we had been sitting on for 10 years, which showed a conveyor
belt of crossbeam forms starting mid-Atlantic Ridge and going out left and right toward
America, toward Europe.
So there was absolutely no question that the seafarer was spreading.
That's the one bit of evidence that Wagner did not have.
But he had lots of other evidence that should have persuaded people.
So this is just one example I could tell you many others of scientific consensus that made
no sense.
And it's interesting because it had no political background.
It was pure science.
But it does illustrate the fallibility of scientists and the group thing that goes in science.
If you wanted to advance as a young geologist, you could write a paper scorning Wagner in
1950 and get promoted right away, even though your paper was completely wrong.
And once you get tenure, you're there for good.
So let me, this is probably a little too long a lecture.
So let me bring it to a close and I'll take some questions.
So the takeaway message is that policies to slow CO2 emissions, they're based on flawed
computer models, which exaggerate warming by factors of two or three, probably more.
That's message number one.
So why do we give up our freedom?
Why do we give up our automobiles?
Why do we give up a beefsteak because of this model that doesn't work?
And bullet number two is that if you really look into it, more CO2 actually benefits the
world.
So what are we doing, you know, this beneficial molecule that's making plants grow better,
that's giving us a little less harsh winters, a slightly longer growing season.
Why is that a pollutant?
It's not a pollutant at all, and we should have the courage to do nothing about CO2 emissions.
Nothing needs to be done.
So thank you.
I'll stop at this point.
Yeah.
Thank you, Dr. Happer.
We now have time for some Q&A.
If you have a question, please raise your hand and wait for a microphone to be brought
to you.
It's very interesting conversation.
One of the things that the environmentalists always forget is the tremendous amount of
CO2 that is produced to get the raw materials, to make the wind turbines, to make the solar
cells.
But another thing that I have thought about, and I've never seen it discussed, everyone
in one of those things takes heat out of the atmosphere.
Has anybody ever figured that out?
The second thing is we talk about the rise of the ocean, of the sea level.
Everything we put into the ocean raises the sea level a little bit, and all of the mud
that flows off of the land raises the sea level.
They think it just comes out from glacier mounting, but there's much more complicated
than that.
Yeah.
Thank you.
It's true that anything you make in our modern world involves CO2 production, or sometimes
the carbon actually goes into the product.
Plastics are made of carbon.
My code is made of carbon.
With respect to the amount of that, I think it's not negligible, but the biggest source
of CO2 is actually burning fossil fuels to get energy for transportation mostly, but
also electrical power.
Another non-trivial part is cement making.
The way you make cement is you take limestone, which is calcium carbonate, and you have to
burn oil or coal, and you bake that out, and so you get the CO2 from burning the oil or
coal to heat it, to burn the lime, and then when you're burning it, CO2 is coming out.
What you're doing is you're baking CO2 out of the limestone, so you get a sort of double
whammy from cement manufacturer.
I wouldn't call it a double whammy.
I would call it a double benefit, because as I've said, it's really good for life on
earth.
Plants love more CO2.
We're happy with more CO2, too.
We know a lot about how it affects humans.
It doesn't affect us at all.
As for sea level, sea level started to rise around 1800 at the end of the Little Ice Age,
and they've been rising steadily at about 2 millimeters per year.
2 millimeters is not very much.
You can barely see it.
That's maybe nine inches a century.
If you go to the sea, a typical tide is quite a bit more than nine inches, so if nine inches
is going to bother you, you've been swindled in the real estate you've got there.
Nobody knows how long this rise will continue.
It could easily go for another century, or it could stop in a couple years.
I was having lunch with someone, and they asked, what's interesting in basic science,
and one of the more interesting things is speculations that solar activity is beginning
to decrease.
If you look at sunspot activity, it's definitely less the last few years.
We've had these rather cold winters the last few years, and one of the possible drivers
of climate is solar activity.
If there really is going to be a cooling period, we had a cooling period, for example, in the
cities.
I remember then reading about the coming ice age and newsweek and time, and they flipped
immediately 10 years later, so in physics we have a joke which says, the hardest thing
about a theory is getting the sign right, and that's been true of climate for a long
time.
Anyway, it could cool in another 10 or 15 years.
I don't have a strong opinion, but I'm interested in it.
We have a question on the speaker's right.
I understand that the original idea was that CO2 would cause a slight warming, which would
cause more water vapor, which was the big greenhouse gas, which would cause still more
water vapor and more heating, etc., and a runaway situation.
The fact that the Earth, well, that the CO2 only, its only effect was to increase the
temperature and start that cycle shouldn't have been kind of obvious since previously
