effects somewhere else that I didn't know, and couldn't have really predicted ahead of time.
And maybe doesn't address some things that are upstream from that molecular target that
were why that thing was happening in the first place. And so is that useless? No. Is it anything
close to knowledge with a capital N or capital K? No, of course not, right? So I might be reading
into this, I have no idea if this is how it was originally intended or it's just a nice way to
interpret it. But the whole idea of no graven images, no false idols, the way I think of that
is that the model of reality is an idol. If I take it to be reality, and that's the too much
certainty in the believable thing, the doubt that is knowable is the model, that I can fully
explicate, that has no more mystery in it of the unknowable set of possibilities. So the model's
useful. We're not saying we shouldn't be doing science, of course we should. The model's useful.
And Newtonian gravity, as useful as it was, got massively updated with
Einsteinian gravity and quantum gravity, and then that will get updated. So we want to hold it as
useful and not capital T true, which means what we stay actually our reverence is about reality,
which is beyond knowable. I can keep knowing parts, but I can keep doing that indefinitely.
And so there's a reverence for reality that means none of my models or beliefs should ever
be sacred to me. The sacred is fundamentally unknowable, unexplainable. I can kind of point
to it through poetry, which is what Lao Tzu was doing. And so then I'm like, it's beautiful that
we were able to come up with a model that's as predictive as it is, and let's use this. And
let's not get certain about it. Let's not even seek certainty around that. Let's have mathematical
certainty that we can actually make a plane that will work or whatever. But let's keep seeking to
understand reality in deeper ways and have a certain epistemic humility bound to that. That's
critical. And this is why the very best scientists had this. This is why Einstein said the things
about, I want to know God's thoughts, the rest is trivia and the value of intuition and imagination,
and why I think it was a sillard who was saying, of all the founders of modern physics,
John Yvonne Neumann was the smartest in terms of clock speed, but Einstein had the deepest
insights. And what was Einstein doing that wasn't clock speed that had the deepest insights? It was
something connected to when he would puff his pipe and look at the clouds and go blank and then
come back to the whiteboard or play his violin and be raptured, that had to do with not just
a processing of parts, but a sensing of wholeness. And there's a way that most people do one or the
other of those things. They orient either to say on this side something like a monastic process or
art, or on this side something like science, technology, engineering. I would say the full
human experience is the way those relate to each other. The way we can seek better formal
understanding, because let's say we're going to make a decision about the electrical grid. I want
to actually use science to understand very formally what the risks are and how to build
the thing and the materials and all like that. I also want to understand that there might be
risks that are not being factored on our current risk assessment. So I want an elastic possibility
to update this with the input of new information. So how do I say this is the best of what we know?
Let's move forward with it and how do we keep not just, we don't want to resist new information. We
want to be actively seeking how we're wrong. It seems to me that what's emerging. So let's
talk about briefly here before we talk about where this is kind of leading. But you discuss
hyperobjects. Hyperobjects are these constructs which are so complicated that they're actually
truly unknowable, because there's too many factors for us to actually sort out. The
ultimate of the hyperobjects is a human being, because particularly we're part material and
reductionist and we can talk about our different cells. But even though cells are made of atoms,
which we can't fully even grasp with our own quantum mechanics. And so we're also this other
thing, this felt sense of this other thing, the capital M mystery thing. And so we end up with
the hyperobject of a human being as a very fundamentally challenging thing to grapple with
at the very base level. So it seems that we have to, as you were somewhat suggesting, bring in
this healthy respect for awe, for rapture, for the mystery, for a lot of what Jamie Weill has been
talking about, like finding the divine within the entheogen, the etymology of that awakening,
that sense, that knowing of what we have, and then combining that with science to figure out what
we're doing our best. But it seems like the thing that's the check and balance, the bounds,
the checks on whatever we're doing, it has to reduce to something else, like Eisenstein's sense
of inner being, this feeling that we are all interconnected, or the highest ideal of truth
and love, right? Like these things that perhaps have to be the ultimate or maybe are the only
checks and balances. So when somebody is doing something that is out of a cord with the fundamental
principle of inner being, which is the belief that everybody is you living a different life,
the earth is actually not separate from you, but a part of you. And we can actually look at that by
everything that we consume from the earth becomes us, we can look at it atomically, we can look at
it in a variety of different ways. We have to bring that understanding and blend it in a very
kind of sensible way with what we can know from science. But that's not, as you said, it's not
happening. It's being siloed. There's people who are exploring these other kind of spiritual aspects
of things. And then there's the scientists that are sorting these things out and asserting that
they have full knowledge of everything in there. And then there's the middle actors, the politicians
who are claiming that they know everything about COVID, for example. And maybe they even feel
justified about claiming the dangers of these certain things because they don't really know.
And if they say they don't know, they're worried about what people do. So they have this kind of
Thanos justification. And what we better say it's as bad as we can possibly say because we need
people to act in a certain way because that will actually save lives rather than being bound by
truth, by love, by this sense of mystery, of the unknowing and really trusting that those principles
will actually somehow, some miraculous way those principles will hold. But without those
checks and balances, it seems like there are no checks and balances.
So I'll translate what you're saying to another way of speaking about it is asking,
are there different methods of knowing that are relevant for different types of contexts?
Science is a method of knowing things, right? It's a methodology. So epistemology means,
how do we know what we know? What is our process of coming to understanding or belief or knowing?
And so science is really an epistemic process of how do we do observation, do measurements, do
testing and prediction, etc. Science per se pertains to the domain of things that we can measure
first, which means third person, objective things, and where we can repeat the measurements.
Are there some things that are real where I might get a measure, but I can't repeat it? Sure.
Are there some things that are real that I can't even measure, either because they're outside of
either because they're outside of the scope of current measureability or because they're not
measurable in kind, like a first person experience. Oh, well, I can measure a first person experience
by measuring brain states. No, measuring a brain state as a neural correlate of a first person
experience is not the nature of the first person experience. This is the, no matter how much I
know about the genetics and evolutionary history and chemistry of a strawberry. If I've never tasted,
I still don't want to fucking strawberry taste like the taste of a strawberry.
Sure. A five MEO can create a one Hertz delta brainwave state, but it doesn't mean that you
have any idea what it's like to be in the experience of a five MEO journey, right?
Neuroscientists studying the brainwaves of people on five MEO or 40 years and meditators
and saying, okay, I know more about their brain states than they do. It's true.
Do you know how to navigate into those experiences or even have a sense of what they're like? Not
at all. So what that means is, but are they real? Yes, they're real, but they're not objective.
So subjective is not fake. An objective is real. Objective is a subset of the real. Subjective
is a subset of the real. Now we get in trouble when we take a subjective experience and try to
make an objective proposition about it, right? So I have an experience, whatever it is, the
experience is an angel spoke to me or something about. Now, if I make an objective proposition,
angels are definitely ontologically real. They live in this thing called the astral plane,
they whatever it is, I'm making a jump from a domain of experience to a domain of statement
about objective reality without doing the appropriate check to see does that hold. If that
was true, what beyond my experience would also be true, they can be appropriate validation.
So what I can say is, it is real that I had an experience of this type and that it was
meaningful for me in these ways, right? And so this is where it's like, there are different
domains. Mathematics doesn't involve measurement. It involves just pure principles of order. So
math isn't science. That's a whole other domain of epistemology of just pure principles of order
and relationality, right? So there's a reason I'm bringing this up.
Everyone does rationality, but they don't hold to it well, you have to train it, right? The
early Greek thing of saying, well, if I at arm's length, close one eye and hold my thumb up like
this to the moon, my thumb obscures the moon, therefore the moon is smaller than my thumb.
That's a rational argument that's wrong, because it's not factoring the change in visual
perception of size based on depth, depth perception, right, farness away. And so we can
do rational constructions that are wrong. So basically critical thinking in science is the
study of how to do rationality well. And we have whole university programs and how to do
rationality well, because almost everyone is rational wrongly most of the time, right?
And there's a similar thing for intuition. Most people do intuition wrongly and there is
a process to refine it, but we don't actually have good school processes for how to do that as
much. So most people will say they'll have an experience and then they'll make a claim about
objective reality. That's a problem, right? And their desire for certainty is still getting
booted. In that moment, they might have been in a trans-egoic state, but then their ego tries to
capture it and say, no, I can say this for sure about the nature of God or what happens after
we die or whatever. Probably not. Like you don't actually have the base for that. You're moving
from something that was an experience beyond belief to trying to make a belief about it.
Don't do that. That's not the thing to do. That's what the knowledge that is knowable is not the
eternal knowledge is referencing. That there is a domain that isn't about believing, right?
It's about a nature of an experience that creates a sense of devotion that will affect the nature
of how I act, including the nature of how much I want to pay attention and study so that I can
act better. But when I convert it into belief, I have to be careful. Did I do that properly or did
I go sloppy? I can give an example of how this happens in this where you have this kind of spiritual
epistemic hubris, right? And I've seen it in ayahuasca ceremonies. Somebody has, and ayahuasca
gives you unbelievable access to what feels like gnosis with a gs, a felt sense of things,
but it will also give you images. And then these images will then play out a story. And I've had,
you know, you always have a sharing circle and you'll have people who will share something and
they'll share something. And often this happened recently sharing something about me. Oh, I appeared
to them as this bunny and this bunny said this thing. And they were certain that I was actually
the bunny actually saying this thing. Whereas with the humility, it would have been like,
there was this thing like a dream, for example, you know, like not, it's not imagining that
this dream was a real dream. But what does this say about potentially about something that is
actually real, but potentially about me, maybe this was about me needing to see you as a bunny.
So I felt more comfortable with my own relational nature to you. And so there's so much that you
have to look at that you have to approach these things as the mystery. And I think this is the
problem when anybody gets into, you know, channeled text or this kind of idea of reading someone
psychically, or you can even on the spiritual side, let alone on the materialistic scientific side,
you can arrive at certainty from your own subjective experience, which is also, you know,
challenging. And I talked about that with Eric Davis as well, like, you also have to just have
great respect for even the most transcendent truth that you arrive at, just this kind of
humility of like, maybe, maybe, and this was interesting. And, you know, let's, let's sit
with this, let's feel it until it feels, you know, until it feel and see how it feels and see what
it reveals over time. Yeah, if like this actually interesting that the essence of the scientific
impulse, the high essence of the scientific impulse is a reverence for reality.
There's actually a kind of felt reverence where it's like, I want to come to study and know what
is including if it's different than what I think, I'm totally happy to have the experiment prove me
wrong, because I respect what is more than I respect my own wrong ideas about it. And there's a depth
of curiosity and desire to know an epistemic drive that arises out of a certain like respect and
reverence for reality. It's fucking beautiful. Is that held all the time? Because I can also have
an unhealthy spirit of science, which is I want to be maximally certain of all the things I possibly
can so that my emotionally negative relationship with uncertainty can be crowded out. So I want to
just have all the facts that I can and feel like I have good answers for everything
so that I feel secure. Those are very different spirits, very different like come from of the
thing. And so if I have a respect and a reverence for reality, and I study history a little bit,
and I look at how many things the best thinkers in the world historically got wrong, got right,
but then also wrong or partial and then couldn't have possibly figured how it was going to be
advanced beyond them. There's a humility I'm bound to, to not just be ridiculous, right? Like I
would be ridiculous otherwise. And then I also get that everyone else that is perceiving reality,
there is some signal on what they're perceiving. There's some reality. So my respect for reality
also means my interest in the way other people see it. Now this becomes the basis of politics.
When you were talking about politics earlier, polis of the people, right? Do we have to do politics?
Yes, we have to say how do these Homo sapiens that don't have stone tools, that have
the ability to split atoms and create nuclear weapons, that have the ability to create artificial
intelligence, have the ability to go into space? How do these ape creatures with the power of gods
coordinate with each other in a way that doesn't just do the ape creature thing with that much
power? Because if I have the power of gods and I don't have some kind of commensurate wisdom
and virtue guiding it, then we self-destruct. And so what is the wisdom and virtue that is
adequate to guide the amount of power that our tech has given us is like a defining question.
And so one of the key insights is that in all the wars, let's say that it's a physical war,
if I don't kill the other side completely, we win a battle, they're still in the world.
They don't go away. They learn whatever weapon that we used or whatever military strategy they
make their own innovations and then they come back. And that's the escalation of war. That's an
arms race of some kind. But the same is true in a political war. We work real hard to beat them. So
for four years, our guy gets in and we made an innovation of how to get more people out to vote
or how to do a more compelling piece of media that scared people and chained them into voting,
whatever the fuck it was. We figured out how to use a better AI system to make customized versions
of our message for demographics that aren't voting. Well, the other side that loses don't stop
existing as people and they don't agree with you. They actually feel more disenfranchised,
more upset against you. They reverse engineer that innovation, add innovations and come back
and the whole field of warfare just escalates. Same in culture wars, any view of left, right,
whatever kind of thing. And with the Industrial Revolution, this very long exponential curve
of us developing the power of God's through tech, right, through abstraction, tech and coordination
that other animals didn't have that makes us not an apex predator because apex predators are fit to
a single environment and then kind of built in harmony. They eat a little bit too many of the
prey and then the prayer fast enough and their population goes down. We were able to become
the apex predator in every environment and over hunt every single environment, right? And then
continue to do that thing. Well, I mean, I think ultimately, ultimately, what we're leading back
to is the necessity for the, you know, the necessity for this, this other, this other way of,
this other way of knowing this other way of, of a check and balance that, that we have to,
we have to have in place that seems to be something beyond, something beyond technology.
The love and wisdom or the virtue and wisdom of God's power. Okay. So, so basically the moment
we started getting the abstraction capacities that gave us tools, language, et cetera, we were
differentiated from the rest of animals in a fundamental way. And there was an exponential
curve of our differentiation that started, but it was long and slow for a long time,
like exponential curves are, and it started to uptake kind of with the Industrial Revolution,
