path. And that will bring us together in some form of humanism. You could imagine that there's
some Independence Day situation where we're attacked by another species and all humans rally
together. You can suppose all of these different things. But the thing, all of those are horrible
situations ultimately that may be necessary. And for me, what actually drives my faith and my
belief that we can all do this in the way that you're proposing, where we all start to sense make
together, is there is a trend in mental health where mental health is declining severely. The
more that we do this, the more isolated we become, the more that we're unhappy. And you can see this
in all of the different trends of depression, suicidality, anxiety, all of these things,
how many people are moving to pharmaceutical solutions, which are not particularly working
that well and being at the rates of all of these different mental conditions are rising.
At the same time, we have a new paradigm, which is the legalization of psychedelic medicine
for treatment of some of these specific conditions, post-traumatic stress disorder,
end-of-life anxiety, depression. There's going to be myriad different things that
psilocybin, MDMA are legalized for, and perhaps other things. So what we're facing is we're
facing a situation where the mental health crisis is going to drive people to these
psychedelic medicines. And as someone with 22 years of experience in these,
what they're actually treating is a side effect of the experience itself, the effects that it has
on depression. This is my belief that the effects it has on depression, the effects that it has on
trauma, the effects it has on anxiety, the effects it has on any one of these different things that
it's going to be legalized for. It's actually treating that as a side effect of the fundamental
experience, which is an experience that is ineffable and indescribable in its fundamental
state. And you can look at the Johns Hopkins study, top-life experiences for people who are
experiencing psilocybin for the first time, all of these different things. We're driving
ourselves to a situation where we finally have what we're reaching for is going to be an alternative
to pharmaceuticals. And I think that's what most people are going to reach towards. But what they're
accidentally going to get is a dose of the fundamental, inexorable truth of reality,
which is that we're all bound by love and commonality. And I think as this moves, this is
the thing actually for me personally, and I think maybe you can also say that we all need hope for
some reason. And this is the way that I'm hanging my hope just so I can have sanity in my life.
But I believe that we're all going to be driven to this. Some people will reach for it who are
ready. Some people will be driven to it because the mental conditions will continue at such a pace
that they'll just have to go to treat their depression and they'll have to go to treat some
condition. But more and more people are going to get to that state, which is going to reach a
critical mass. And then that is going to create the commonality and openness where all of this work
that you're doing is going to proliferate and proliferate at such a point. It's not just you.
I'm saying you and the participatory and the collective you of the people and the ideas and
the zeitgeist that's emerging from these things that you're talking about, the meta discussions.
But it's going to drive this in a way that has far more momentum than we realize and it's going
to continue to build. And to me, that is the way that I make sense of the greatest hope for what
we have. That's my Gandalf on the hill with the shining staff and the white robes. That's the
thing that I believe has a very good chance of saving the day. So here's the thought that comes
up for me about that. I'm going to start with a tangent and come back in.
If I think about physical tools, some tools are intentionally made at called weapons. It's a tool
for a rivalrous purpose explicitly. But pretty much any tool that is intended for another purpose
could be weaponized if I had to. A hammer is not made for that purpose. A screwdriver is not made
for that purpose. A laptop isn't. I could hit somebody with a laptop if I needed to and be
more effective than maybe my fist. So every tool can be weaponized. And of course, the laptop can
be one of the most powerful weapons if I'm talking about cyber attacks or narrative attacks.
Because the tool is just extending our power. And then the question is, what does our power
and service do, both knowingly and unknowingly? It's also true that psychological tools and
epistemic tools and even spiritual capacities can be weaponized. And this is why we have a history
of holy wars. That's a weird thing. How is it that ultimately the basis of what's being served
is some sense of the true, the good, and the beautiful and something transcendent that it
creates a basis of war so effectively? All virtues exist in dialectic with a virtue that
seems like the opposite, and you can fail on either side. This is the Ecclesiastes,
there's a time to sow and to reap and for peace and for war. So what is it that knows which one?
Well, there's some discernment, some presence and discernment that is able to do that.
So we can weaponize certainty, make people falsely certain about something so they
move forward with the holy war. But we can also weaponize uncertainty. So it's not like certainty,
bad uncertainty, good. Weaponized uncertainty is actually one of the most common political
narrative warfare things that happens. The term FUD, fear, uncertainty, and doubt.
When people feel more fear, uncertainty, and doubt, so not uncertainty with the all in beauty,
but uncertainty like fuck what's going on, I feel scared, they defer to strongmen more,
strongmen leaders. So anyone who has a strongman leader orientation actually likes to drive
fear, uncertainty, and doubt as a narrative weapon for power consolidation. Because then,
look, you feel highly uncertain, I'll give you some certainty now.
Or you at least go nihilistic and don't get in the way. And similarly, people can weaponize uncertainty
like, okay, it's the beginning of Facebook. Just starting, it's a dating app, right,
then it's like a social app. Nobody's thinking it's going to destroy democracy by ruining the
systemic commons because of its ad model and powered by AI and the monopoly of network adoption.
But some people actually were talking about that, right? There were some people early on,
the Jaren Laniers and folks like that, who were saying, actually, this thing shouldn't have an
ad model. There are reasons why that's a really bad thing. And it was like, dude, you can't be
certain of that. Like, let's just, we don't know what's going to happen. We're doing a good thing,
you got to have faith, you got to just like build the positive thing, we'll move fast and break
things. That's what drives innovation, right, is that we have new problems and humanities rising
to the occasion to innovate more. So it's weaponized uncertainty. You can't know,
therefore, do the thing that I have an incentive to do, as opposed to really try to do deep risk
analysis and say, what are the possibilities of what could happen? What is the best risk analysis
we could do? What's the best design we can do? And then what's the best iterative design process
that when we realize things we didn't realize, we can change the design and not be bound to
shareholder fiduciary responsibility or things that make an auto poetic machine that nobody can
control. So now in terms of psychedelics, I would say the thing that you're saying that I totally
agree with and find is true is that people's ability to increase their sense making adequately
that open societies can coordinate to solve the problems of the world
doesn't start with sense making, it actually starts with something like virtue.
Right, it starts with, because it's so common that I forgot this train earlier, people have
epistemic certainty, and then they realize that there's other stuff and they're wrong and they
flip in one step to nihilism, it's too much, I can't make sense of anything. And there's almost
no fortitude to be like, I'm going to try to understand progressively better while
acknowledging that I don't and do hard work and not just cognitively offload.
So there's something like epistemic humility and commitment at the same time. But there's
a virtue that is required to invest in that, there's a virtue that's required to want to hear
what you have to say and not just feel some fake connectivity with someone else by outgrouping
the same person. So we're on the end group together, which is a, it's a bullshit connectivity,
right, or a bullshit hit or whatever it is. So the work that it takes to sense make
reality well and to coordinate with each other well, why would people invest in it? There is
something that they have to actually value, there's a number of things they have to value
deep enough to summon that investment. So do I think that the health of our systems and our
global society is connected to the health of individual
psychologies and relational health? Absolutely. So the idea, are there emerging technologies
and possibilities and awareness about mental health that could be part of the breakthrough,
where we actually, in the same way we will say better living through chemistry, DDT,
whatever, super helpful for agriculture and then realize all the harm that it externalized,
and there's no pollinators left, whatever, we externalize harm to people's mental health,
right? So radically increased addiction, depression, complex PTSD for almost everybody,
low grade existential angst for almost everybody, that is not actually the native human condition,
that is the result of the society that is optimized for GDP and GDP per capita through
optimizing addiction and distraction and competition and shit like that, right? And
broken tribe, the healthy kind of tribal relationships where there is a basis of
real trust with people. So we need to recognize that external and say, no, no, fuck, we actually,
the civilization shouldn't be optimizing for GDP. The civilization should be optimizing for the
psychological health of the people and their ability and the social health of the people,
their ability to coordinate together, because that's what's going to determine
the health of the commons, national security and everything else, because all the things are fucking
done by people. So what is the basis by which humans are making choices and then making choices
with each other? What is their own sense making and meaning making and forming their choice making?
And what is their ability to coordinate with the sense making and meaning making of other people
towards coordinated choice making? That has to become the basis of what civilization is trying
to help, right? Trying to serve. Now, I do think that awareness of this and not just psychedelics,
but, you know, there's been a huge proliferation in mindfulness and CBT and various different methods.
I think psychedelics have the ability to do state induction easier than lots of other
processes because a Sundance is hard. Not that many people are going to do a Sundance
and even a vision quest and, you know, four days of water fasting is hard.
And the amount of meditation it takes to start to have an experience of the
numinous is hard. So in a culture where people don't mostly do hard stuff yet, can we
help them have a numinous experience that puts them in the right direction?
You and I both seen a lot of people be helped by this.
But there's a lot of the best people that have ever lived have never done psychedelics. And
there's a lot of people who do lots of psychedelics that are just shits. And
you know, if I look at a Jimmy Carter type person who post cancer,
after all the service he did for the world is something like 98 and he's still swinging hammers,
literally building homes for poor people around the world. And like,
I will take more people like that, even if he's never had a numinous experience, like whatever
condition that kind of ethical commitment, like, I'll take that over people who,
because they have a transcendent experience, will do that Facebook kind of weaponized uncertainty.
And be very good entrepreneurs who are moving forward, something that is a very partial vision
that's externalizing harm other places, not paying attention to it. I've seen people do
psychedelics and actually say, now I know for real, this is a simulation,
because I could see into the code of the matrix on an NDMT or whatever. And so,
and I know that it's really just a game. And I actually know that my consciousness is the only
thing there is. And so I'm just going to fucking win the game. Yeah, I know it can lead to mania,
it can lead to all it's not, it's not a panacea by any means, you know, and I think that's a very,
it's a very important point that that this is not there. However, I would, I would dare say,
let's talk about one of these, you know, cheap manipulative tools that we talked about, like
where people are arguing about gay marriage, right, which is patently obvious that, of course,
a human being, if you want to get married, it doesn't matter your sexual orientation.
I would dare say that someone who is against that in the peak of a guided MDMA assisted journey,
as they were completely open, their serotonin system was flooded and they had that sense of
deep belonging and security and connection that the that the facilitator could ask them,
what do you think about people with a homosexual orientation getting married?
I would venture to say that at that point, they'd be like, yeah, for sure. Like, if they love,
like, let them love and like, let them be, I do have a fundamental belief that in the right context,
to course correct from kind of stubborn stuck patterns of thinking these the kind of
brittle and unplastic, unmalleable belief systems, it has a way of potentially melting
those enough and getting to a point where it's like, yeah, yeah, we can't do that. Yeah, we
can't fuck the oceans. Yeah, we can't fuck over each other. Yeah. Like, I just feel like,
from my own experience and watching people go through it, there's, there's hope there. There's
hope there that it will, you know, even though it's going to create some outliers and even though,
you know, as Moctezuma had his priests all taking, you know, Teotonactyl, which is psilocybin and
cutting the hearts out of people and shoving those hearts in the mouth of, you know, Whitzel
Approachly, the hummingbird God. And while, you know, certain gang members will take MDMA when
they go on a shooting because it'll prevent them from feeling the kind of the impact that they're
doing. And certainly it can be used in bad ways. Certainly I've seen people go, you know, completely
manic and think that they are the actual linchpin for the world and, and all of these other things.
We're looking at situations that need to make a gross positive impact. And I think the net gross
positive impact is going to be overwhelmingly positive. But there will be, you know, certainly
casualties to this and also opportunities for this to be misused, different cult leaders that
could rise using entheogens and different things that are driving people into weird,
psychologically manipulative states. There's risks, you know, there's no, there's no
panacea and there's no risk free solution. It just seems that what we really need is most people
aren't Jimmy Carter's, you know, I mean, that's a, it's a kind of a rare breed. We need something
that turns the, turns the tide a little faster because it feels like time is bearing down on us.
And something needs to happen quicker. And to me, this is the thing that in my assessment,
again, which I need to have humility and saying, I don't know the assessment of how much time we
have and what is actually going on. But in my assessment, it feels like there's a sense of
urgency and that urgency is there's something that needs to move masses more quickly. And to me,
this is the thing that can move the masses more quickly. And there's many, many different ways.
I mean, I love breath work. I love ecstatic dance. I love sensory deprivation tanks. I love vision
quests. I love all of these things. And these methods I think are also incredibly important
it just feels like the thing that's going to actually move the masses to the greatest degree
that is going to be that MDMA assisted psychotherapy in particular.
I agree that it has really significant meaningful potential. And, you know, we come back to the
with great power comes great responsibility, or we go off the rails with it. And that's kind of
the whole story of our time is the power of exponential tech not being guided with the
right wisdom and the right virtue towards what. So I would consider psychedelics a very powerful
psychotechnology. And because of that, I want it stewarded really well. I want to see that the people
who are likely to have psychic breaks, there's assessment and they don't go into that first
that the meaning that people make afterwards is facilitated that they integrate it in a
way that actually leads them to more psychological health rather than the various other ways that
it can go. So I like like the work that Stan Groft did early on with psychedelic assisted
psychotherapy was using existing psychotherapeutic techniques and just recognizing that the increased
visualization capacity and the increased plasticity, you could get the effects of 50 sessions and two
sessions. And but it was still in the context of people who had deep study and understanding of
the nature of psychological health and how to facilitate that. So I think groups like Mass
are doing really important work currently advancing that kind of early work. And it's always tricky
like with psychedelics or natural medicine or various things that are unregulated. By being
unregulated, they can be totally fucked up. But when soon as we understand the issues that you and
I understood earlier of how easy how hard it is to have a regulator actually be good, then it's like,
okay, I don't really actually want it regulated by the types of regulators we currently have. I also
