in liberal democracy is, okay, we're not going to try to have the state run everything the way that
a communist structure might. We're going to let the market run things because all the ideas of
why we like markets, it's a decentralized system and the supply and demand is kind of a collective
intelligence when there's more desire for something, the demand goes up, which creates a basis for
supply to occur emergently. And then the rational actors will choose the best product or service,
the best price, like all of that kind of market theory. So we'll let the market do that thing.
And it has less total imposition force than a state trying to do it. But we don't do laissez-faire
pure market with no state because there will be a market for really bad things. Like we can have
a market for organ harvesting and we can have a market for sex trade and whatever kinds of things.
And it could be profitable to cut down all the trees. And there's no national forest left or
kill all the fish or whatever it is. So a lot of law organized crime, whatever, right? A lot,
it wouldn't be crime. There would be enough no force checking it other than competing organized
crimes. So the idea... Well, I mean, you could presumably have law, but with radical economic
libertarianism, right? Like you can't hurt other people, the environment being the indirect way
to hurt other people. So I suppose if you are making a libertarian, I don't think you're saying that
there isn't an argument for a different type of libertarian belief in which you protect
the commons that are the earth, not the epistemic commons, but the actual logistical,
physical commons of our shared mother. And you also protect each other, but also leave everything
completely laissez-faire. And I'm not advocating that.
When you mention law, the topic of enforcement comes up. So who is the you that could do the
thing? And if the enforcement doesn't have asymmetric capacity to those who are violating it,
it breaks. So rule of law is based on the concept of a monopoly of violence.
And the military force and the police force are the idea of who is a safe
holder of a monopoly of violence to be able to institute rule of law. So here, I'm not saying
that it's accurate, but the kind of foundational idea, and it's accurate enough that it's worth
understanding, the foundational idea of why a liberal democracy is this kind, is the market
on its own. We'll do some things really well, but some predatory stuff. So you want something to
check it, but the thing that checks it has to be more powerful than it or it doesn't work.
But then the question is, what is checking it? And so in a market, let's say that we even started
out T equals zero, everybody has the exact same amount of money. It would never happen that way,
but let's pretend that we did. Pretty soon, you'd have a power law distribution of wealth,
just always ends up occurring that way, because some people get ahead better because of better
capacities, luck, whatever it is. And then those increased financial capacities make it easier
to make more money, make interest on interest, you gain interest on debt, you know, that kind of
thing. So this principle takes over and gets even more exacerbated. So when you get a power
law distribution of wealth, how do you have anything like representation or justice for
these people when these people can put everybody in their employment and like that? Well, the idea
is you need something even more powerful than the top of the market. And that's the state.
And so we're going to give it monopoly of violence, but it has to be representing the people as a
whole. So the commons, the collective, everybody is going to be. So this is why we want a government
of foreign by the people. And that the basis of law, which is the only thing that monopoly of
violence will back up is the collective ethics of the people, right? The values of the people
that get to come through some kind of discussion and voting process, turn into the basis
or the jurisprudence basis of law itself. The key thing is that the purpose of the state is to
check the predatory aspects of the market while leaving the healthy aspects of the market. But
that only works if the people check the state, right? And when you look at the structure of the
Constitution, it was largely around how do we make sure that the state doesn't become a runaway
thing and that the people actually check it while giving it enough power that it checks the otherwise
predatory aspects of market that would make feudalism again. Because if you don't have a state
and you have a power law distribution of wealth, you end up getting something like feudalism.
And so this is why George Washington famously said, I'm going to paraphrase, but the number one
aim of the federal government is the comprehensive education of every single citizen in the science
of government. And it's so huge, right, that that was the founding idea that he was saying that,
because he didn't say the number one aim is to institute rule of law. And he didn't say it's
to protect the borders, right, or monetary creation. Because if the number one aim is to
protect the borders, it can become a military dictatorship very effectively. If the number
one aim is to institute rule of law, it can become an oppressive dictatorship very easily, a police
state. The only way it stays a democracy of formed by the people is if the number one goal is the
comprehensive education of everyone in science of government was the term of art at the time.
What are the principles about how humans coordinate with each other that everyone would
need to know to intelligently participate in their own sovereign self-governance?
So they have to understand history and political theory and game theory and coordination theory
and all those kinds of things. Now you can see that most people don't have any sense in the U.S.
today that they are part of government at all. They will complain about government as if it's
something out there. But if you don't participate actively in your own governance, you are de facto
consenting to be ruled, right, by whoever it is that does show up to do that thing.
So this is where the epistemic commons comes in, right? That was a quote about that the number
one aim of the federal government has to be to support the integrity of the epistemic commons,
the process by which everyone comes to understand things. So specifically, education and the fourth
estate, the education by which people could learn how to think, could have enough basis in the
understanding of how economic motives work and how coordination works and those types of things.
Where they don't come up with dumb propositions that have already been tried and figured out
because they just didn't understand it, how a rule of law works. That education has to be
foundational. And the fourth estate is what is the information about what's happening today
that we're going to need to make choices on in an unbiased or biased, corrected way that the people
have both the current information and the ability to process the information so that they can
participate in deciding what are the right propositions and crafting propositions. Before
the lobbyists, the idea was that people would actually craft the proposition in a town hall
talking to each other, right? And so it's the education and the fourth estate are prerequisite
institutions for democracy torque or anything like a republic or an open society torque.
If those erode, then you could not possibly have people participating in collective effective
governance because they don't know how to think about the issues. We asked average people in the
U.S. today about almost any of the issues that government is having to govern on from a DOE policy
on microgrid stability for the electrical grid or nuclear first strike policy if an issue came
with another nuclear country or whatever. I never even thought about those fucking things.
We're too busy worrying about gay rights in some country where someone's arguing about it or
some other kind of red herring that is being thrown out that triggers some tribal or kind of
gut reaction response instead of talking about the actual real serious challenges that are being
faced. And that's certainly just one of the many aspects that you're mentioning is that the things
that we're debating are actually, in large case, a lot of things that are not the things that are
actually the boot that is with the soul on our throat. You know what I mean?
You mentioned, okay, so now we're going to come back to the economic warfare thing. And when you
say gay rights, gay rights as a subset of the different types of highly polarizing issues
and identity polarizing and any politic type issues are a great way to have a population
largely stay divided against each other and not notice the macro structures
that are most problematic, particularly things associated. Okay, I'm going to share a construction
here. A poor white person and a poor black person have more in common with the possibility space of
their life and either of them have in common with the billionaire. And they have differences,
like important differences and depending upon where they live more significant. So
and so one could start to say, well, all of our lives would get better if we had better economic,
like fundamentally, we had better access to resources. If our kids went to better schools,
we had better healthcare, these are economic issues, we're working two jobs or whatever it is
to barely pay for a crappy house, can't spend time with our kids so we can't parent well,
like these are economic issues. And then there are some people who at the top of the power law
distribution own almost all the wealth, that if that was differently allocated, it would create
a very different quality of life for everybody, the degree to which races continue to stay focused
against each other or LGBTQ against cis hetero, whatever, or partisanship left versus right is
the degree to which they don't recognize that they have some deeper commonalities that have
deeper structural drivers that if they that would require some kind of unity to actually address.
So that is a classic trap. That's a classic narrative warfare trap. What is it? And this
is not just by those in the top economic class within the within the country. Also,
if I'm another country that wants to not have the US be dominant for say real reasons,
because they're doing political geopolitical bullying or whatever, or because we actually
want to win the geopolitical great game of power, I'm not going to take the US on head on the biggest
military in the world, I'm not going to do an attack that doesn't have plausible deniability.
But if I can find existing fault lines in the system where people are sensitive to be turned
against each other, and I can just poke on that where the people turn against each other more,
how you turn the larger enemy against itself is a classic military strategy
for to for dealing with a larger opponent. So now fucking Facebook does it on its own
without even having that intention. It's not that Facebook has a conspiratorial intention
or political intention. It made the people who wanted QAnon stuff get more of that and the
people who wanted Antifa stuff get more of that based on the algorithm that was optimizing time on
site. And that algorithm, you mentioned you mentioned the strength of that algorithm. I
mean, you told a story where, you know, Gary Kasparov lost a deep blue, which is the chess
algorithm. And that beat a chess grandmaster, and he knew he was facing off against a computer.
Well, the algorithms that are running social media are more advanced than the algorithm that
beat Gary Kasparov. And we don't even really know that we're squaring up against him. I mean,
that's just a that just is a mind blowing example of what we're actually dealing with. And I think
the people there, they're just letting it run, you know, based on it's getting more attention,
more attention, because more ads serve more ads served equals more money. And it's just the
thing is just running and it's kind of running out of control at whatever cost by whatever means
necessary. So most people, their time on site doesn't get maximized by showing them
complex nuanced arguments. They bounce, right? They get to an article and there's a complex
nuanced argument, they bounce. If there's a click baity title, they're more likely to click on it.
So there is a actual incentive for salaciousness. And then if it's short enough, if it's put into
a soundbite or a tweet, right, that somebody can get a hit without hitting their increasingly low
attention span that wants it more dopaminergic hits per minute, then they are more likely to
engage in it. And really all they're doing is they're a memetic processing machine in that
moment that's saying, does this mean fit with or not fit with my existing meme complex? If not,
reject if so, accept and propagate. Because also the discomfort, there's an intense discomfort when
things disagree with those beliefs that we hold in our identity, that ego construct inside of us,
that is like basically getting a paper cut every time we see something that disagrees,
it's getting an ego paper cut every time we see anything that disagrees with something we believe
because we're so attached and we've assumed that as part of our identity. So we don't want that,
we don't want paper cuts, ah, but a nice little dopamine hit, a nice little, you know,
little bang of a bang of the neurochemical we love so much. We'll go for more of that. So
of course, you know, of course it works. You just mentioned, right? This is not
the highest angels of our nature. This is not the highest potential of being human. It's some of
the lowest, right? That wants to be right whether we are or not, that is uncomfortable with uncertainty
and wants artificial certainty, right? So is to feel secure. We can see through the history of the
world, people were willing to kill and die for religions where they were sure that God's name
was such and such, and most of those gods don't even exist anymore, like nobody really cares about
Thor or Apollo or whatever. And they were the kill and die over certainty for those types of things.
And so we can see how powerful certainty as a driver is, and we can see how historically
is a, it almost always looks wrong. And so does everybody else's certainty that isn't on our side.
And so those are things we want to overcome, not drive and make worse in the same way that
everybody has addictive tendencies, but to make a healthy society, you want to help people overcome
addictive tendencies, not push on them and make them worse. And yet, if I'm a business,
and I, let's say I have a fiduciary responsibility to my shareholders to maximize profit from a
public business, right? Then I maximize the value of my business by increasing the total
addressable market and increasing the lifetime value per customer. And I increase the total
addressable market by trying to make products or services that are relevant to everybody,
to increasingly more people. And I increase the lifetime value of a customer by having them
want to keep coming back to whatever the thing that I do is, and there's no way to do that
better than addiction. And so the supply side motive benefits from addiction. The society,
and this is where we understand that war makes GDP go up, right? Military spending makes GDP go up,
sick people spending a lot of money on medical care makes in pharma industry makes GDP go up.
GDP is a very, very bad indicator for well-being because total amount of money flowing through
an economy has a lot to do with things that are managing bad problems. So the problems
actually make it go up. But the demand side does not have the coordination that the supply side has
because you and me and all Google users aren't getting together and coordinating as effectively
as Google is with itself. So even though we're the same, like the total amount of attention
money flowing from demand into supply is the same in aggregate, the demand is disaggregated and the
supply is coordinated. So you have an asymmetric warfare. So then the supply side says, I can
manufacture demand. This was where Theory of Market started to break. This was one of the
key places where Theory of Market started to break because Theory of Market was people
want real shit that will improve the quality of their life. And they'll make rational decisions
between the various products or services available. So the fact that people want something,
they're willing to pay something for it creates an evolutionary niche for others to try to create
supply and the best product or service at the best price will win. Well, obviously all the
behavioral econ stuff that shows we don't make rational choices, particularly when we have the
ability to have emotionally manipulative advertising that's as effective as it is,
that hacks status desires. If I don't have that thing, I'm not part of the trend, the in-group
or whatever, that now gets to be AI optimized, split tested, AI optimized, that mostly is a
drive to satisfaction to then give them a hit that they got something. But also the supply
sides are to recognize, I can make people want shit, they never want it. And I can manufacture
demand. And so manufactured demand now broke the idea that the market is actually a collective
intelligent system of things that are actually meaningful to increase quality of people's lives.
And the best manufactured demand is addiction, of course. And the supply side has much more
ability to coordinate that motive. That's the AI and employment of it compared to the people who
don't even know that there's a rivalry scheme for their own attention happening.
And also there's the problem because, listen, I mean, we're having this conversation about
Facebook global and the challenges that it's actually perpetrating upon our society and
the ills of it. But I still have an Instagram account and I put a lot of beautiful ideas and
things and I reach a lot of people and I get dozens of message every day. Thank you, Aubrey,
for what you put out. This really means a lot to me. And so I'm in one level participating
because that is the place. This has now become the medium by which I can express ideas that are
helpful. So that becomes this cost-benefit analysis. I'm contributing to something that is
overall detrimental to the society. But if I don't contribute, then I lose my ability to share
my gift, which is actually contributing positively to society. So they have me in a bind and they
