don't really like it unregulated. Fuck, what's the answer? Well, I want it regulated by a collective
intelligence that actually understands the issues better. This is the why a cultural enlightenment
has the basis of new institutions and stewarding new capacities is the only way that I really see.
And so of course, there's this bootloading thing of like a certain level of cultural
enlightenment is needed to even hold psychedelics well. And then of course,
can psychedelics in turn facilitate that? Now, when you start to think about how do you move
the masses quickly with regard to psychological health? First, I don't I just want to retract.
I hate the term the masses. How do we have lots of people start to have meaningful
shifts in their experience of reality that affects the nature of the choices they're making to be
both healthier for them, their close relationships and the larger world and so far as they affect it.
Let's take Facebook. And let's take the fact that my feed is going to be curated to stickiness
for me stickiness is usually limbic. So during George Floyd protests,
the people who would be sensitive to it were just getting image after image
of black guys being killed by cops. And so much so that as I kept scrolling and seeing all of this,
it seems like it's the whole world because it's my whole Facebook feed.
And so I'm getting I'm getting vicariously traumatized by somebody that I identify with
being traumatized. That is that is network dynamic, satellite mediated, AI mediated,
micro trauma at scale that is custom targeted to traumatize each group in their own unique
susceptibilities like fuck that. I don't need psychedelics for that. I mean, it might help.
I need to actually change that machine because could it be sharing with people things that
were actually helping to heal and uplift them if it had a different optimization basis?
And again, if even the broadcast media, if people are going to click on the thing with
a salacious headline, I'm going to have a system of like exponential warfare that is traumatizing
to everybody at scale and polarizing them against each other. Those things have to be addressed
because people in new environments can heal quickly. And people in the same environments
mostly can't. This is actually a really important thing is if you or I got moved to
a war-torn region of Darfur, we would change. If we went to a maximum security prison, we would
change or we would die. And so am I my own psychology or am I the result of the context
I'm a part of? Both, right? And anyone who thinks you're not affected by the context is just it
doesn't get it. So there are contexts that everyone is in that are conditioning the things that they
condition and we changing those can start to change. So like for instance, if the moment someone
decides that they're going to go to a month-long camping trip with their friends,
their generalized anxiety and trust issues in paranoia as well as addictions might just start
dissolving without psychotherapy because they're around. They're having present human interactions
so they're not seeking artificial human stimulus through the dating app and Facebook and porn,
whatever it is. They are having interactions where they know they can trust things because
they're getting to watch those people. And the trust that is increasing starts to heal them
psychologically whereas they're currently in an environment where they don't know if the people
at work or friends are foes. They don't know if the politicians are lying to them to fuck them
saying their friends or not. That drives people kind of crazy, right? Because now people are running
the simulation of do I trust her or not? Is is too real and they're really blood drinking vampires
or is that totally gibberish and I'm being misled as a psyop or like that drives people crazy.
And so when we think about healing, we have to not just think about it as healing the individual
but healing the context that us as tribal people because individual Homo sapiens never survived.
Evolution didn't select for sapiens. It's selected for tribes of sapiens.
That's another really key part to think about.
Is there any way that we can change the context, change these institutions, change
these things without changing the people to demand a different context, right? Like is there any way
that we can rise up against these incredibly effective structures that are creating this chaos
other than knowing that we ourselves as participatory in them or not
have to reach that state of healing? I mean, it seems to me that ultimately we're saying
the same thing. I'm just saying that a priori, the first thing that needs to happen is the individual
needs to demand that needs to want to go on that camping trip or needs to want to do this other
thing in the first place, which is then going to cause them to share different ideas and then
that will actually change the structure. As more people want healthier food,
Walmart has become the number one supplier of organic produce. As people move against different
processed food, I'm sure that we'll look back and McDonald's is going to be crushing it,
providing people with the nutrients that are actually helpful for the most part,
because they have the system in place and as demand warrants it, the people will receive it.
It always seems to always go back to, can we get more and more individuals
desiring the change and then allowing these corporate structures, which are going to maximize
profit, when the profit is in a different area and the area is actually in alignment with what
healed people actually want, then the structures themselves will change. But it seems like anything
else is, I don't know, I just don't see how it works, but I'm certainly open to it.
But you're coming back to the question of does demand drive supply or does supply drive demand?
Yeah, I suppose so.
And it does both and we have to work with both of the sides and we have to work with the virtuous
relationship between them. This is a key thing and this again, demand relates to the individualist
orientation, supply relates to the more collectivist orientation. And to think of them not in a
dialectic and what's the relationship between them just won't work. It's just silly. It's not
understanding the mechanisms yet, well enough. So let me give you an interesting example.
There's other ways to interpret this. This is not a comprehensively accurate interpretation,
but it's worthwhile as it's illustrated for this.
What Elon did with Tesla was there was not a market demand for electric cars.
The oil prices were cheap enough. There wasn't a belief that electric cars could be that good,
that the market demand was actually very low. So supply wasn't rising to do it. People were buying
SUVs, whatever. And he's like, no, I think we need electric cars because of climate change and stuff
that he believed in. I got enough money coming out of PayPal that I can make a source of supply
and then manufacture demand where people will want something they don't want right now because
they don't even know it exists. And so because of the asymmetry of supply side, he's like, let me
make something that is fast as a Ferrari and greener than a Prius and safe as a Volvo and
as luxurious as a BMW all together and everybody who fucking wanted through ground up kind of
innovation because I can do that. I got in the plane to do that. So that was a supply side
innovation independent of demand. It was somebody like one guy's demand, a few people's demand,
a belief in what we should demand. They create a source of supply that manufactured demand within
all the other car companies now are in a race to do that thing. So the other sources of supply
had to follow demand, but demand wasn't triggering itself. The market was not self-correcting in an
appropriate way without somebody coming in and kind of helping to do that. So in a way, you could say
he was playing the invisible hand of the market there because the invisible hand wasn't doing
the thing that it needed to do because the market wasn't coupled to thinking about long-term
environment. And it wasn't coupled to thinking about long-term innovation. So the short-term
money on money dynamics of the market didn't give it the intelligence it needed to orient.
So that's an example of how does a small number of people understanding something,
you still have some people that have to come to it, right? He came to that, the other people who
were doing it creates something that makes it easier for other people to come to it.
This is now individualism driving a collectivism that drives more individualism that drives more
collectivism in the right direction. And so if I grow up in Darfur or I grow up in Finland,
I'm not going to get the same education. I'm not going to get the same psychological conditioning.
It's just really, really different. And that has nothing to do with me as an individual,
same genetic, put me in one place or the other place, right? So how individualism
fucking put me in Finland, right? Like nobody would have a question about which of those educational
systems or trauma systems or like access to healthcare or early nutrition. So the libertarian,
like we need to start with the individual's wanting and saying, okay, well, how does that work for
the person born in utter fucking poverty? It doesn't. How does it, where they're born in a
poverty to where their brain will not develop because of the lack of nutrients or with AIDS
or with the kind of trauma that they can't escape. And this is where we get that, like,
we affect the whole and we're affected by the whole. We can't think of ourselves just as
hive members of a collective because we're much more individual than termites are or bees are.
But we also can't think of ourselves just as individuals. We're not affected by the whole.
So how do we hold ourselves as unique and interconnected at the same time?
And agentic and where all of our agency will affect the environment, which will affect others,
but we're also affected by the environment. How do we hold that synthesis together? So
some people are going to have a sense of something that is worth doing that the market
doesn't currently incentivize, that there isn't adequate demand for. Figure out how to make that
thing. This is why it has to start with culture, not start with the market. Because the market is
going to incentivize the thing it incentivizes. That's just flowing on the topology of market
incentives. And it will continue to incentivize the war with a for-profit military industrial
complex is profitable and extraction and blah, blah, blah. So if we want to do something that
is different than the power structure currently in sense, why? What is the why? Some people have
an awakening to a why that is not winning at the current system. But they then have to make
a system that makes more people able to on-ramp onto it, not just do their own thing. And then
that's where you get auto-poesis. That's where you get something that can actually become a strange
attractor for a new possibility. Absolutely agreed. It seems to me that that will become more likely
because Elon, he arose from that and whatever. This is not saying that Elon is the better
angel of all of us. I don't know, Elon. I don't know what's going on in his mind or whatever.
But it feels to me like the better angels with the capability and potentially the resources and
potentially the collection, they're amongst us, interspersed amongst us in this collective
world. And it's going to take, yes, every different individual to arise to these
different understandings about the nature of how connected we actually are. And then certain of
these individuals who have the ability to create new structures like Elon did with the cars that
will have to emerge to build these new structures. And those will be actually select individuals
that will come together. But I guess for me, what I'm trying to sort out for myself is where can
I put my efforts that will be best served? And it feels to me like, yes, sometimes this will
just be for an individual and their family. They'll be a little sweeter to their spouse. They'll be
a little kinder to their kids. They'll be a little more helpful to their neighbors when we have in
Texas where it's snowed like hell for no reason. In the middle of February and neighbors were
helping neighbors, they'll be more likely to do that. They'll be creating this. And then there'll
be some hidden Elon's or hidden better angels that are awakened to this, or maybe they even weren't
even better angels at all, but they'll turn over to this. And these different structures,
like you said, which are absolutely necessary, will have to emerge structures that are competitive
with the current structures and then get enough momentum where you can actually, where I could
actually legitimately hop off Instagram and be like, see you later, Instagram. There's this other
thing that's way cooler and has the fundamental values that are needed. And I think I've met
some individuals who are actually doing that, and that's actually their prerogative, their
targeting. I know one individual, and I won't mention his name, but he's taking some of the
builders of AI, some of the leading edge builders of AI, and bringing them into five MEO ceremonies
and saying like, whatever you build in this AI needs to have this fundamental understanding of
unicity. And this is my best way, and this is his word, my best way of sharing this felt sense of
unicity is through this particular ceremonial experience. And so if I can give these people,
he's targeting them specifically, if I can give these people, because he has access,
and he has also the experience. If I can give these people this felt sense,
they'll build this into the new structures. This is the new structure that has the force,
and this will create a new system ultimately. And it also, hearing you talk makes me want to
reach out to them and be like, fuck, man, thank you again. Like I see how important it is what
you're doing, but it's now I'm even more aware how important that is that the people who have the
ability to create massive structural technological and corporate change by creating a different system
that they're empowered and embodied in a way that's going to actually carry that out.
And I think a lot of people ask the question, if we need to recouple
power with wisdom and virtue, where we've had a system where wisdom and virtue make you less
good at the game of power. And those who are more sociopathic, more narcissistic, both oriented
towards power and happy to win it when lose games, do better in those systems. Do we recouple them by
taking people who have more orientation towards wisdom and virtue and trying to figure out how
to empower them or get them to be good at the game of power? Or do we take people who currently
have power and try to condition some wisdom and virtue in them? And they're both honestly very
difficult propositions and both important. That's a both and, and the both and is definitely
seems to be the synthesis, you know, and there's always there's dangers on every side.
And I think finding that middle way is immensely important. And I get that that's what you are
doing, you know, with this podcast of you have an individual,
agentic, you know, orientation towards a healing growth learning path, you're coming across things,
you're like, fuck, I want everybody else to know those things so that they can do have to get access
to it and do stuff with it. So how do I take the people who I find insightful and, and help? And
that's a cultural enlightenment process, right? How do I help bring more knowledge, wisdom, insight
to more people with the belief that increased collective intelligence and collective wisdom
will generate lots of positive things beyond the obvious ones we can predict?
Yeah. Well, and being able to talk to, you know, brilliant heart centered people like yourself
are a huge part of that. So just the utmost gratitude for everything you're putting out and
for having this conversation. And yeah, man, just just really grateful that that we're in this space.
And, you know, ultimately, the other thing that gives me peace is whether we win or not,
you know, whether this thing goes up in a ball of flames or it doesn't,
how we orient towards it is really what matters. We can't control the unknown, we can't control
all outcomes, but how we play like how we fight the fight, do we fight with love, do we fight
heart forward and head up, helping as many people along the way. If the end comes, and we've known
we've done everything else, you know, even though it's the worst possible outcome, we can do so
with the full heart and just say, fuck, I gave it everything I got, you know, like today's a good
day to die, you know, like I've done my best. And I think that's all that we can do is just know that
we've given it our best and given it everything we got. And, you know, certainly these tools that
you're providing are absolutely crucial in helping us all be able to live that out in the best way
possible. There's good talking with you. Thank you for here. It was fun. Absolutely,
brother. Thank you so much, everybody for tuning in. Is there anything, give people the URL for
Consilience and anything else you want to point people to? Sure. The Consilience project,
Consilienceproject.org is just at the date of publishing this is super nascent, like not even
really a beta. It's a prototype that is pointing towards what we're working on. We can talk about
that more sometime. It's a five-year project itself terminates at the end of five years because,
as you were mentioning, the organization, the organization's desire to keep perpetuating itself,
which every organization has, ends up being a perverse incentive if it's trying to solve a
problem or if it really solved it, it obsolete itself, and then it becomes a basis to just manage
the problem forever because it gets some power by doing so. Sometimes building life cycles in
or completion processes in is very helpful. More on that we'll show up over the next several
months at consilienceproject.org. That's it. Beautiful. Thank you so much, brother. Thank you
everybody for tuning in. Thanks for checking out this video. For more like it, please subscribe to
