To the degree that you want something, is the degree you're afraid of not having.
God, I wish I started when I was younger.
I go, yeah, but you didn't.
So shut the fuck up and let's keep going.
Nobody changes until they change their energy.
When you change your energy, you change your life.
Because it's not till then that it's really real.
It's like, oh, this is way worse than I thought.
Oh yeah, it's way, way worse than you thought.
But luckily there's more to you than you think.
Yeah.
Daniel, how are you, my brother?
I'm good, my friend.
friend. And I said that I said that that way particularly because we were just commenting how
some people don't receive the warm welcome of my brother in the same way as other people. So I
wanted to really put extra emphasis on my brother just for the intro here. Start us off right.
I receive it and appreciate it. Absolutely, man. Well, there's a lot of amazing shit for
us to talk about. And, you know, one of the new things that you've you've gotten into is called
The Consilience Project. And it's just a really beautiful, you know, group of people. And I'll
let you describe, you know, the people you've brought together, what you're trying to do and the
problems you're trying to solve with this project. And then we'll get into the details of some of
the things that you're pointing to. Yeah, so start with just a brief overview of The Consilience
Project. Yeah, totally. Yeah, I will just clarify, it's not people I've brought together as kind of
group of people who had known each other, worked in related spaces and self assembled into this thing.
It's actually an important distinction. Come back to that more. But yeah, some of the people who's
thinking about world problems, I have learned the most from respect the most and have a
depth of actual care and commitment in addition to very nuanced understanding.
Maybe the easiest way to talk about it to begin with is
we can look at the history of our social institutions and social coordination systems
before we had formalized ideas of markets, global markets, say before Scottish Enlightenment,
go back, you know, feudalism before nation states, back to tribal cultures, early empires,
changes in the social systems by which lots of humans can coordinate effectively towards shared
purposes, humans who understand the world differently and want different things.
Those social systems had to make major evolutionary leaps as the underlying tooling basis, the techno
industrial basis of the societies did because it changed the nature of the types of things that
people were doing, how many of them could coordinate the division of labor and specialization and
the types of issues they had and like that. So you'd see step functions and tooling and then you'd
see correspondingly breakdown of the previous societies that couldn't handle those issues and
the new step functions and the social capacities. And obviously that had to also mean step functions
in the nature of education. How do we develop the people who can understand the whole knowledge
base that is needed to run the civilization? Because obviously in, you know, 100 years ago,
we didn't have to develop people that could run a internet and now you and I are speaking
mediated at the speed of light, mediated by satellites. There's a lot of human knowledge
that is needed to keep that system that we all depend upon running. So education
to be able to advance that civilizational knowledge has to evolve to do that thing.
If we look at the current problems that face the world, we look at the fact that
we had a movement from broadcast media where a few people could broadcast a message and everyone
else would get a relatively consistent message from the printing press on through radio and television
to with the internet, this kind of decentralized everybody can broadcast and then a complete
explosion of more content than anybody can take in. And then how does someone find the
result that they're looking for when there's a billion search results for anything? So you get
these major platforms that based on network dynamics end up being people's main interface with
the totality of the internet that is curating content specific to them. This is Facebook,
YouTube, Google. And so of course, people get customized worldviews that have nothing in common,
like a person in a red state and a person in a blue state, their newsfeed on Facebook might
have not a single thing in common. And yet they don't realize that the world that they're getting
exposed to is not actually the world. It is just a little fragment of it. And of course,
since Facebook is a company and it is making money by selling this person's attention through
advertising, it wants to optimize people's time on site. It optimizes their time on site by
having them spend as much time as possible through attention hijacking. And that happens
if I stay in a very conscious, self-aware place, I'll realize I don't want to spend that much
time on Facebook and get the fuck off and do something else. So the degree to which I get,
of course, distracted, engaged, limbically hijacked by fear, desire, in-group, out-group type
dynamics, I'm going to spend more time. So the AI that optimizes that newsfeed automatically
ends up driving individual bias, like confirming people's bias, because people spend more time
when their bias is getting confirmed than when they're being exposed to new stuff that disorients
them. And in-group, out-group type of identity, so we get more outrage, more kind of limbic
hijack, more bias confirmation. How do you run a democracy with that? Those are new issues. Nobody
ever faced those issues of a completely fragmenting worldview mediated by technological infrastructure
of that type that has more people than China and the US combined. No previous people had to deal
with the issue of weaponized drones that could take out infrastructure targets that anybody
could make on their own at home, or actually arms race on weaponized AI, or hitting planetary
boundaries regarding species extinction and dead zones and oceans and climate change and
a million other things. So when you look at how badly we are doing at solving those issues,
the fact that none of the sustainable development goals have been met, the fact that we can't do
nuclear disarmament despite how important it is. In fact, we get more countries that have nukes
rather than less, and we get new arms races. Every time there's a new technology, you get a
kind of inexorable arms race on it. We can't solve the tragedy of the common's issues,
and the issues are moving closer to catastrophic risk, eminent catastrophic risk, and it's like,
okay, maybe our problems are such that we need new problem-solving mechanisms. And it kind of
makes sense that the founding fathers, as smart as they were when they were coming up with a social
coordination system for the US at the time, they didn't have these problems. When they were
thinking of the Second Amendment, they weren't thinking of thermite weaponized drones, like
it's just a different thing in terms of catastrophe-level weapons that individuals,
non-state actors can have. Like, what are you doing with that? And they weren't thinking of a
satellite-based IoT surveillance state, and how do you deal with that kind of thing? So if you
try to apply that system, you'll find as brilliant as it was and adequate at the time, it also
categorically fails. And the same is true when the Scottish Enlightenment was doing theory of
markets. They didn't have these issues to deal with. So the biggest company possible, the asymmetry
between that and the individual was nothing like the asymmetry it is now, and limits of growth
planetarily weren't a thing. And a financial services sector that was running on AI high-speed
trading wasn't a thing. And the same was like Marx's critique of that, didn't have to deal with
this. And even the Bretton Woods world that says, oh, shit, we have to deal with the bomb,
that's a new thing, and so we can never have war again between the major countries,
the Bretton Woods world right after World War II didn't have to deal with these
complex of issues. And so fundamentally, what we were kind of recognizing in this is that the
problem-scape of the world currently has to be addressed for life to be able to continue,
because the risks are actually catastrophic and increasing in number and probability as time
goes on. And they are not being adequately solved through the types of approaches through either
business or individual governments or IGOs or nonprofits that just they're not being solved
adequately through those processes. And for the most part, our problem-solving processes either
don't solve the problems, or they solve a narrow problem and externalize harm somewhere else in
the process. And so the major problem that needs solved is that our problem-solving processes are
inadequate to the problems we face. So what are the new problem-solving processes? What are the
new coordination processes that civilization needs to have to be safe stewards of the level of power
that full globalization and exponential tech gives us? And so when you think about the Scottish
Enlightenment was good thinking on this idea of theory of markets and that thinking ended up
becoming the basis of new social systems. Marxist thinking became the basis of new social systems,
the Federalist Papers and the kind of thinking that on social issues in the early formation
of the American democracy gave rise to a social system. We're working on an analysis of the problems
that the world faces that is deep enough and detailed enough both in how the problems interconnect,
why they haven't been able to be successfully solved and what's generating them,
that it gives insight into what adequate problem-solving processes would look like as the
next phase of kind of social organization. And that if we don't want that social organization
to be imposed, some people get it and now we're going to impose by force this more enlightened
thing on everybody, which is itself a fail case. Impositional government, we would say,
is a fail case of a different kind. Then it has to be commensurate with the ideas of an open
society, even though it would be a more advanced type of open society, meaning that the government
derives its power from the, or the governance process derives its power from the consent of the
governed, that the people are actually, as Franklin said, the depository of the power.
Well, that means that the people have to understand the issues well enough and
want these new problem-solving mechanisms and be capable of participating with it.
Well, that is a kind of cultural enlightenment that requires people developing a lot of
capacities to make sense of the world and to have high-quality conversations with others and to have
effective problem-solving, which requires a change in value that would even have them invest in that
and in the development of new capacities. So what is the necessary current kind of cultural
enlightenment that could give rise to new problem-solving processes and institutions that could
solve the problem space that we're facing now and usher us into a high-tech digital global world
that works and doesn't drive catastrophic risk? Those are the things that we're exploring and
trying to help advance this project. Well, I think you've very eloquently described some of the
problems that we're facing, and we're going to certainly get into those and also the need for
this to happen, because what we're seeing right now is it's kind of this transition point. We're
in this interesting bardo where we're somewhere still riding on some constructs and systems that
used to work in the old times under different circumstances and situations and are starting
to fail and starting to collapse. And the way that everything is working now is somewhat urgent,
I think to say, and that might even be a euphemism. So let's start getting into this and start talking
about the potential solutions. And one of the things that you mentioned was the importance of
the epistemic commons. And the epistemic commons, epistemic, meaning pertaining to knowledge,
commons meaning available to everybody, the places where we are able to access knowledge
are now being, this is now, I think you refer to it as the hyper battlefield
right now of non-kinetic warfare. Everybody is using the commons as a way to manipulate people,
to actually change information. It's become something that no longer is trusted and for
good reason. So let's talk about that. Let's go into, first of all, the importance of the
epistemic commons. And then what is happening to the epistemic commons?
Yeah, there's actually quite a few things that you said there.
So when you were talking about the battlefield of non-kinetic warfare, just to clarify for some
people, if the term isn't obvious, kinetic warfare means bullets and bombs and physical warfare.
von Klausowitz said war is politics by other means. And so you can say that everything other than
kinetic warfare is politics, meaning it is a battle between the interests of various groups.
But you can also start to recognize that when those groups identify each other as rivals,
fundamentally, and we'll use whatever kind of capacity they have to make a win over their rival,
it's just non-kinetic warfare so that we can think of economic warfare when you're trying to
corner the market on the thing, you're trying to sanctions and whatever. You can think of
diplomatic and political warfare. You can think about narrative and information warfare. How do
we control the narrative so more people vote for our side or believe in our country and its
patriotic purpose or whatever it is or our religion in advance of holy war? It's not a new
thing. Narrative warfare is a very old thing. Sun Tzu talks about it, the 36 stratagems in
ancient Chinese military theory are basically all about it. But the modern age gives us
narrative warfare capacities via the web and social media that are really radically unheard of.
So we would actually say that the most fundamental warfare occurring is economic.
It's backed up by the possibility of kinetic warfare, but the front where most of the
activities happening is cultural war, narrative war, info war. If you control what people believe
is true, then they will think that they are self-governing and you believe what they,
you affect what they believe about what is meaningful. They will think that they are
freely self-governing towards a purpose that happens to be a purpose that other people
helps to engineer. Let me challenge something that you said real quick.
You said that the fundamental warfare that we're experiencing is economic warfare,
which to my mind, and just to clarify, that would mean like US versus
China in this kind of grappling with what the world economy is actually, where the balances
are shifted and scaled. To me, it seems like that would mean that there was a coherent
United States that was, I think there may actually be a coherent China, but that's
because they have a different regime. That would imply that there's a coherent United States that
actually cares about something other than their own political career. I'm not convinced that there is
any actual cohesion between the United States actually giving a shit about anything other than
individuals giving shit about themselves at the time that we're in right now.
Who is the actual actor in warfare is a very good question.
Is the US a coordinated and coherent monolithic actor, or are individual people in positions of
lobbying power, legislative power, political power, making decisions that largely have to do with CYA,
cover your ass kind of stuff for themselves and ladder climbing and bonus structures and whatever,
and kind of actually debasing the integrity of the commons, in this case, the country?
Are they making party wins that hurt the country as a whole? Even if it likes, let's increase the
narrative rhetoric about how bad the other party is so we make a win, even though we're driving
countrymen against each other so much, the country actually loses its coherence and ability to do
anything in the presence of other geopolitical powers rising very rapidly who don't have that issue.
So there's a school of libertarian thought called public choice theory that gives a very good critique
of the idea of representative democracy. And it's not offering a good solution, but we just have
to know the critique, which is the representative in a position of government is still an individual
economic actor themselves. And especially if they have term limits, they're going to get out
and do something else afterwards. And especially because the position of being a representative
that has limited economic return, but they're regulating industries that have huge economic
potential, and they're supposed to largely regulate in a way that decreases some of the
economic possibilities that would otherwise be predatory, right? No, you're not going to dump
that pollution there. You have to process it in a more expensive way or whatever it is. And so
kind of no matter what the representative does, half of everybody won't like them and almost
nobody will know what they really did when you have a system that becomes this opaque and complicated.
So whether they fuck the hole in virtue signal or really authentically serve the people, they'll
be kind of equally liked and disliked most of the time. And nobody will really be able to see the
accounting. And so how do you actually bind their interests to being a representative of the hole
rather than a representative of their own self interest so that they check the market rather
than the market capture the regulatory process that's supposed to check it? The fundamental idea
