Hello and welcome to day one of the Reverse Alzheimer's Summit. I'm your host Dr. Heather
Sanderson and I'm so happy to have you here with me today. I created the summit because
I just couldn't wait any longer for someone else to do it. Back in 2017, I was trained
by Dr. Dale Bredesen on the Bredesen Protocol to prevent and reverse dementia. Soon after
that training, I had patients coming to me asking to get on the protocol, very enthusiastic
about doing everything that Dr. Bredesen had detailed. Well now, a handful of years later,
we know even more and I want to share that with you because these patients taught me
what I didn't know. I had been a bit of a skeptic. I thought I believed well-meaning
professors, other neurologists, other people who had told me that there really wasn't much
that we could do about dementia and that it was giving false hope to families if we said
we could do something about it. When I saw these patients reversing their dementia in
just a matter of weeks, I knew that I had to dedicate my life to telling anyone who will
listen that this is possible. There are too many people needlessly suffering. Now I was so
inspired by my patients that I really have dedicated my life to this. I applied for a
grant and was awarded it to study this approach to dementia in 25 participants. We're currently
collecting the data in my office and I'm looking forward to publishing a peer-reviewed article
next year in 2022. Stay tuned for that. And also, there's a lot of great new research that you're
going to hear about today on day one. So not only have I done this research trial, but I also
started Marama, the first residential care facility of its kind. I was being approached by
patients asking, where can I send my loved one? My dad or my uncle or my mom has dementia. And I
just I want them to get this the benefit of this lifestyle of these interventions, but I don't
have the capacity to do it at home. It's hard work. And for someone who's struggling with memory
issues, it can be next to impossible to implement. I saw that most of my patients were getting better,
but there were some that just didn't have the capacity to do everything that we were suggesting.
They wanted to. And so I created Marama as a place where they could go and trust that they would
get to implement the entire protocol with the help of well-trained caregivers and a non-toxic
environment with all the brain-stimulating activities all day long that you can imagine and
an organic ketoflex diet. So you'll learn much more about this and other things throughout the
summit. But I just wanted to share with you why I personally am so invested in this topic. I have
watched too many people suffer unnecessarily. I've heard too many times that they went to a doctor
and they were told there was nothing they could do when I know that that is factually inaccurate.
I have watched it with my own eyes and I continue to see it day after day. I hope you are as inspired
by my patients as I am. Before we dive in to everything there is to do, who do you know
who needs this information the most? By sharing the summit with others, you could change or even
save someone's life. So please click the share button below the video to help us spread the word.
Additionally, please make sure to share this by clicking the button below the video to help get
this information to the people who need it the most. In case you feel like you might miss any
of these incredible interviews this week during the summit, don't worry. You can pick up your VIP
all-access pass with this special discount right now. You can have a lifetime access to this entire
summit and all of the bonuses. So go ahead and grab a lifetime VIP access right now by clicking
the button below. So you can listen, watch, and even read the transcripts at your own leisure.
I know how it is. Life gets busy. Can't do it all in one week. But go at your own pace. There's
lots to dive into here and lots of simple things that you can start incorporating today.
Taking off today's summit is Daniel Schmattenberger, a dear friend and mentor of mine. Daniel is a
founding member of the Consilience Project, aimed at improving public sense-making and dialogue.
The through line of his interest has to do with the ways of improving the health and development
of individuals and society with the virtuous relationship between the two is a goal. He's
going to share a new model for how we can understand the root causes of dementia and why it's so
important to go after root causes rather than just memory loss. We get to reimagine what healthy living
healthy aging really can look like. This first talk sets the tone for the entire summit. So please
make sure to stick around for the full interview. Let's get started. Daniel, thank you so much
for joining us. I'm happy to be here with you, Heather. So we met six, seven, maybe even eight
years ago now because you introduced me to a patient who you were working with as sort of a
coach and a manager, a case manager, so to speak, on his very complex symptoms that no doctor could
really figure out. And you met me in an integrative office where I had really just started working
as a new doctor. And I think what you found in me was that I was curious and excited and young
and malleable that you could you saw someone who you could influence to to and turn on to these big
ideas that feel a bit overwhelming, but where we really can have an impact. And I have been so
inspired by the way you grapple with these really big problems, things like Alzheimer's disease,
and find manageable solutions. And it gives me so much hope about some of these big issues that
we're facing as a society these days. One of the big pieces of information that you related to me
will there while there's lots. One of the most important things was this concept of complex
system science and how just because something is complicated and complex doesn't mean that we
can't get really great outcomes, and that we can apply that to the human body in a very systematic
and organized way. And that led to you and I developing this framework or this model of medicine
where we apply that science to to getting people healthier and optimized.
I'd love to dive into it with you. So can you can you start to describe this framework in this model?
Sure, but I want to start with what I actually appreciated in you that had me want to collaborate.
I wouldn't say I was anything like a case manager for this friend. I was just a friend,
and it was a time in my life where I was putting a good bit of just my own private study in the
thinking about health and medicine and disease and aging because it's obviously relevant to
everybody. And most as my bio that seems to make no sense for a course like this would indicate
most of my interest has been with other complex systems like economies and ecologies and cultures
and governments and kind of global things. But how a society self-organizes, how it breaks down,
how it's healthy and how a body does is not that different. Complex system just means
lots of interacting parts where it's a little bit hard to model and you end up getting things like
self-organization and emergence and stuff like that. So I was working with people who were friends
who had health issues that didn't seem to be addressable in the current systems and trying
to think through how do we make sense of why the body self-organizes pretty well when we're young
and why the same genome starts to self-organize less well with age and stress and etc and why
some people seem to kind of age earlier than others based on various things and why there's
a distribution of people who get better with particular diseases and people who don't and
like what spontaneous remission actually is and you know just thinking through those things.
And you were one of quite a few doctors who I was interacting with during that time but
what you had that was pretty unique was the intersection of being very interested in novel
ways of thinking while also being very conservative to make sure that before you were implementing
something with a human person that you could actually see people who had been clinically
working with those ideas and getting good results. So you were neither the slow adopter that wouldn't
do something until it had been you know fully FDA approved but you also weren't the cowboy who was
like running the experiments on people and I thought it was a really right intuitive synthesis
and you just cared about your patients so much that you spend all of your free time
thinking about their cases and worrying about them and which is exactly the right psychology for
a doctor who really wants to care about people and I could see you were willing to put in the
time to think about each case really in a unique novel way not just here's the disease diagnosis
and this is how we treat it and so in terms of someone to be able to practice and think through
each person in an n equals one unique case situation and to be able to find things that were
reasonable to apply but that also might be able to offer results outside of what was currently
available you were a perfect partner have been since. Well thank you it's been really an honor
to get to work with you and a privilege to watch many people improve their health when you know
they were told maybe otherwise by another doctor was that a point where sorry I can't help you or
there's your tests look fine there's nothing wrong and seeing that story comes through my office
over and over again applying the model that we built together to those patients and really
developing a confidence over time that we would get results over and over again very predictably
on on challenging complex cases and that brought me to studying with Dr. Bredesen you turned me
on to him initially in his his model of Alzheimer's and how to approach Alzheimer's is basically a
complex system science adaptation to that particular disease process and I really had the
interest the curiosity around it and the desire to help these patients because no one else really
is doing it or was at that point thank god there are quite a few more doctors who have trained
with Dr. Bredesen are starting to understand these ideas but you and I talked through this early on
and I think it can be applied not only to Alzheimer's but to many many other complex
chronic diseases and so I want to dive into that framework and sort of this finite number of things
that can disrupt the complex system and the definition of balance and how in balance is
really what ultimately causes disease. Yeah one of the things that I found very interesting that I
was looking at with any chronic complex disease people who had MS or even just severe chronic
fatigue or things that didn't have a clear causal pathoediology that we knew how to define
and clear treatment there were doctors who were doing strange things in different parts of the
world that were having success better than the background of spontaneous remission and
one of them would be a Lyme doctor and like not everybody would get better but more than
people who were getting no treatment or just traditional treatment and one would be a mold
doctor and one would be working with endocrine balance and one would be working with methylation
and various things and so what I was interested in is why are they getting results at all
and then also why are they not getting more complete results those were like both equally
interesting questions and so my kind of default hypothesis was that maybe MS is not one thing
maybe Alzheimer's is not one thing maybe it is a dysregulation of a self-regulating system a
complex self-regulating system and that system can dysregulate in different ways and if it
dysregulates in a way where a similar set of tissues and biomarkers are affected we call it
the same disease so we call it MS if there's a similar set of symptoms or whatever but even
like within Alzheimer's we'll see there are people who have we diagnosed with Alzheimer's who have
beta amyloid plaque and some who don't and there are people who have beta amyloid that we don't
diagnose with Alzheimer's and some have apo E4 mutations and some don't and so it's not even
like there is a clear diagnostic so that kind of diagnostic marker is helpful for insurance
purposes but it's not that helpful to really understand what is going on and how to prevent it
or reverse it and so it made sense to me that if we're dealing with a very complex system that
its self-regulation could break down in multiple different ways that could lead to
similar kinds of pathologies similar kinds of expressions of symptoms or clusters of biomarkers
and so it was an interesting question to see are the doctors who are working on
Lyme getting some results because sometimes Lyme is one of the major factors and the ones who are
working on mold are getting some results because sometimes that's one of the factors and that
if we were to study all the things it seemed to be getting some results so this is kind of looking
at positive deviants on the side of success case study success let's take everything they got some
success and take that as a hypothesis that that is one thing that might sometimes be involved in
that disease let's also just look at the research literature that is looking for correlation and
causation and see what are all the things that show up as being sometimes statistically involved
so do we see that in autopsies of brains and nervous systems of Alzheimer's patients that we
see Borrelia more often than we do in background people so we would see a correlation that is
curious to be it is that a partial causation right things like that and then we start to say okay well
all those things that if when you treat them they get better more than spontaneous remission and all
the things that in the literature seem to be at least statistically correlated more than you
would expect for background rates let's take all of those as possible contributors to this type of
pathology and we'll create a phase space of all the things that we know that might contribute
and then say well what if we did diagnostics across all those things and we might expect
that we see different things for different people that 10 different people with MS have
10 different sets of things but that the question would be if we treated specifically the things
that we saw going on might we be able to help them with a higher success rate than just the one
working on Lyme or just the one working on mold or whatever it is and as it turned out
that ends up being pretty successful and so the question became how do we start to identify the
phase space of all the things that might be part of the causal factor we're thinking about
multifactorial causation and so that the complex chronic disease doesn't have one cause it might
have three or four ten causes they might not have all happened at the same time someone might have
have had a car accident that created a micro TBI 30 years ago that started to create stress in
the nervous system and make their system just slightly more sympathetic and less parasympathetic
that started to down regulate their immune function so that then 10 years later when they
traveled to Guatemala and got food poisoning they had an ongoing microbial issue in their gut and
then they got a subclinical dental infection right like that there's and in another case it was
mold in their house and a very stressful divorce and you know more genetic predispositions and
something else so we're not just looking at one factor but possibly quite a few factors
they might be delayed in time all the way up to like decades delayed in time and not just
that it's multifactorial but different factors and different people so also factoring different
kind of genetic predispositions that they're coming in with so how do we kind of put all
that together to be able to not treat MS or Alzheimer's or rheumatoid arthritis as if it's
one thing but to be able to actually treat what that person actually has going on and they're
presenting with in a more personalized way and that was kind of like the the beginning of starting
to then say how do we model all of the different areas and things that are worth looking at
and it's such an aha moment for so many people to go from being attached to the diagnosis like
what we name the problem or the symptomscape to going back and saying well maybe the better
question to ask is what's standing in the way of the complex system adapting and optimizing
and responding to the environment and being able to complete its functions on a day-to-day basis
for many many decades right and then maybe not only what's standing in the way but then on top
of that what can we do to enhance its ability to continue to adapt and be resilient to changes
whether it's seasons or aging or having children or working and contributing whatever the stressors
that come up in that person's life that they actually even have resilience and can optimize
their experience of the world. Yeah so this concept of resilience if we're going to define health
obviously health is the absence of disease. Symptomology is a very antiquated definition
I think everybody knows that because we all know stories of people who had a headache
went into the doctor and found out they had a brain tumor that was advanced they only had a
few weeks left to live and that thing had been growing for months or years asymptomatically.
By the time we actually get symptoms of a autoimmune disease we might have had
autoimmune markers and before that inflammatory markers for many many years asymptomatically and
also something that wouldn't even show up on normal blood labs so a system can be in sub-optimal
regulation that is starting to move into pathophysiology for a while before their symptoms or
the most common disease markers we would look for. So we say okay well how do we define health?
Health is about the robustness of the body's ability to maintain homeostasis or better term
friend Andrew Hill coined was homeodynamics and or at least that's where I heard it and then our
other friend Jun Yoon talked about not homeodynamics but homeodynamic capacity it's not is it staying
in range it's how quickly does it come back to range and how robustly does it come back when
a stressor moves it out so homeodynamic capacity or the resilience of the system to be able to
stay within healthy ranges as the system is stressed is really the definer of health right
which would be can someone be exposed to more viral particles of the flu and not get it can they be
exposed to more ranges in temperature and still be able to regulate their body can they be exposed to
more environmental toxin and be able to cleanse their body of it if they have a stronger liver
