This is not directly in our genome either. Where this comes from is the working out of
the physiological software that this hardware enables. And so we have to ask a number of questions.
Given that DNA specifies the hardware, where does the anatomy come from? How do cells know
what to make and when to stop? If a piece is missing, people like us want to know how do you
repair it? How do you convince them to regrow what they need to regrow? And as engineers,
we also ask, well, what else are they willing to do if we knew how to communicate with them?
And I could do a whole thing here on the anatomical compiler and some of those ideas.
But if we knew how to communicate with these cells, what else would they be willing to build?
And I'm going to show you some of those towards the end of the talk.
Now, one cool thing about this process is that it's not hardwired. This is not simply the emergence
of complexity. This is actually the emergence of intelligence. What kind of intelligence? Well,
goal-directedness of a certain kind in anatomical space. So here, this is an amazing creature,
this axolotl. And they regenerate their limbs, their eyes, their jaws, portions of the brain
and heart and so on. And if they lose a limb, and they do this all the time, they bite each other's
legs off constantly, wherever they lose the limb, the cells will work very hard to build exactly
what's needed, and then they stop. And that's the most amazing thing about this process is they
know when to stop. How do they know when to stop? Well, they stop when the correct axolotl arm has
been completed. It's a process of anatomical homeostasis. If you deviate them from their goal,
they will get right back there and then they stop. By the way, this is not just for weird organisms.
Mammals are a little bit regenerative, so humans can regenerate their liver.
Kids up to a certain age can regenerate their fingertips. And deer can regenerate bone
and vasculature and innervation up to a centimeter and a half per day of new growth when they're
doing this. So we have some of these capacities, but not terribly much. And I want to show you
one of my favorite examples of this kind of intelligence and what it means to be a being
coming into this world. This is a cross-section through a kidney tubule in the in the in the
nude. So normally it's made of eight to ten cells or so. But one trick you can do is by
increasing the number of nuclei of actually genetic material in these cells, you can make
the cells much larger. So the cells will scale to the amount of genetic material,
but the nude stays the same size. And the only way you can do that is by using fewer cells to
build the same structure. And so the first amazing thing is that you could have extra copies of all
your genetic material. No problems. Everything still works. Second, you can have huge cells,
and you will scale the number appropriately. No problem. The most amazing thing happens when
you make truly enormous cells. And at that point, one cell will just bend around itself and give you
that same lumen. Now this is a completely different molecular mechanism than this. This is cell to
cell communication. This is cytoskeletal bending. So this is top-down causation. In the service of a
particular journey and anatomical space that that this system needs to make, it can use different
tools in its disposal. It can use different molecular tools to get the job done. And we can ask all
kinds of interesting questions about how did it know that that was the thing to do? But just think
about what it means to be a nude coming into this world. You can't depend on anything. Never mind the
environment. Never mind the injury that somebody else might come along and bite your leg off or
something. You can't even count on your own parts. You don't know how many copies of your chromosomes
you're going to have. You don't know what the size of your cells are going to be. You don't know how
many cells you're going to have. You have to come in and on the fly, you have to take this journey
in anatomical space, and you can't overtrain on your evolutionary priors. You cannot assume any of
the things that were true in evolution going back. Not just about the environment, but about
yourself. So a very long story, very short. We've been studying how all these things work, and what
we basically found out is that the capacities of brains and nervous systems for dealing with novelty,
for intelligence, for navigation, for keeping memories and pursuing goals and all of that,
those capacities are actually incredibly ancient. They're driven by a kind of
electrophysiological software that is produced in the brain by these little ion channels
that set voltages, and these voltages can propagate through the network, and you get
this electrical activity that you can imagine going on in the brain. But that mechanism is
extremely ancient. It's not really specific to brains at all. Evolution discovered it about
the time of bacterial biofilm, so very long ago. And all cells have these ion channels,
most cells have these electrical synapses. Your whole body is a giant electrical network
that has many of the capacities that your brain has, but it does them slower. So if you take almost
any neuroscience paper, and you just do a find, replace, and in fact, we made an AI system to
do just this for people, it basically flips some words around, you know, if instead of neuron,
you say cell, and instead of millisecond, you say hour, you basically get a pretty reasonable
developmental biology paper about how, whereas your brain thinks about moving you in three
dimensional and now linguistic space, the rest of your body has been thinking about how to move
you through anatomical space from being an egg to being, you know, whatever, whatever we become.
So I just want to show you a small piece of what happens when we understand something like this.
This is, this, these electrical networks are literally the cognitive medium of the
collective intelligence of your body cells, whereas you are the product of the collective
intelligence of your neurons, your body is the product of the collective intelligence of the
rest of your cells behaving in anatomical space. And when we learn this interface,
this bioelectrical interface, we get access to an API that's very, very powerful. Here's one
example. And by the way, just to say none of this has to do with applied electric fields,
there are no electrodes, no magnets, no waves or frequencies or anything like that. We're hacking
the natural interface that cells use to shape each other's behavior, which is the set of ion
channels and gap junctions on their surface. And so, so we can, we can, for example, insert
some, some potassium channel proteins here to create a particular voltage pattern. And that
voltage pattern is a signal to these cells. And what these cells will do is build an eye. This
is not like the eye I showed you before, that was a transplant. This is not like that. We have said
to these cells, which normally make a gut, we've said, here's a particular voltage pattern. It's,
it happens to be the same pattern that they normally use to make an eye. And the cells see it,
and they build an eye. Okay. And these eyes, if you section them, have the same lens, retina,
optic nerve, all this stuff. Now notice a couple of interesting things. First of all,
like any good subroutine call, we did not have to give it all the information on how to build an
eye. In fact, we don't have any idea of how to build an eye. We don't know how to talk to all the
stem cells, all the genes that are there that have to be turned on eyes very complex. And we don't
want to, we want a high level stimulus that prompts the cells to do what they already know
how to do. So that's the first thing. The second thing is, here, this is, this is a lens sitting
out in the flank of a tadpole somewhere. The blue cells are the ones that we actually injected
with our ion channel, but there's not enough of them to make an eye. And so what they've done is
they've recruited all these other normal cells to participate with them to be an eye. And in fact,
we've studied, there's a conversation that happens, these blue cells acquire a new belief. They believe
that they should be an eye and they tell all the other cells, hey, you should be working with us
to make an eye. These other cells, actually, what are they saying? They're saying, no, we should be
skin or gut or whatever. And so they have this back and forth conversation. And sometimes these guys
win and you get an eye. And sometimes the rest of the cells win and they ignore us and stay whatever
tissue they're supposed to be. There are other collective intelligences like ants that do this
when, you know, two ants or a couple of ants discover something that it's too big for them to
carry by themselves. They recruit their neighbors. So all these competencies, you know, this ability
to hold a goal in anatomical space to try to convince others of your goal to get buy into your
story about what should happen and sometimes you win and sometimes you lose that battle. All of these
are native competencies of the tissue. We didn't have to build in any of that. It's already there.
And in the plan area, I told you that they regenerate. And if you cut off the head and the tail,
this middle piece will reliably regenerate this normal worm with the right number of heads.
Here's the bioelectric pattern memory. This is now, we're literally seeing the memories.
Think of it as a brain scan, except not in the brain. We're literally seeing the
representations in this tissue of how many heads a normal planarian should have. So we can go ahead
and change them. We have the technology instead of one head, we can say, no, you should have two
heads. And here's a perfectly normal animal whose tissues, not the animal itself, not the brain,
but the tissues have been incepted with a new memory that says that if you should get cut in
the future, so this is a counterfactual. It's not true now, but if you get cut in the future,
a proper worm should have two heads. And so if you cut that worm, this is what you get. And
again, not Photoshop. These are real. So a single worm body, a perfectly normal and anatomically
normal worm body can store at least two different ideas of what it will do in the future if it
should happen to get injured. And the reason I call this a pattern memory, it's a memory of the
collective intelligence of the body. The reason I call it a memory is because if you then go ahead
and you cut these two headed worms in perpetuity, they maintain two headedness with no more change.
And so this has all the properties of memory. It's stable, but it's rewritable. By the way,
not genetic. We haven't touched the genetics. The genetics are completely untouched. So the
question of where is the anatomy of this, the answer, the genome is not really the right answer.
Yes, the genome encodes hardware that by default will say one head, but that hardware is reprogrammable
and here you can have these nice, you can push it into this other state. And by the way, you could
push it into a state belonging to other species. So this nice triangular headed planarian can make
flat heads like a Pifolina, round heads like an S Mediterranean. This hardware, again, with no genetic
change, this is just by altering the bioelectrical patterns that serve as the memory here. They
will visit these other attractors in the anatomical state space where these other creatures normally
live about 100 to 150 million years of evolutionary distance. But that's okay. This hardware can
visit there if pushed. And of course, not just the shape of the head, but actually the shape of
the brain, the distribution of stem cells are all the same like these other species. So what we're
seeing here is the, first of all, the hardware, software distinction in biology, the reprogrammability
of biology, the API, once you understand how the cognitive glue works that binds individual cells
into a more global vision of what they should be doing, now you can start communicating with it,
rewriting goals, and really collaborating with the material. This is, you know, I do a whole
other talk on engineering with agential materials. This is not metal and Legos. This is an
agential material. You're a collaborator with that material. You're not micromanaging it.
So let's think about where these cells come from. So here's a blaster term. Let's say it's,
you know, 10 or 50,000 cells in the beginning. We look at that and we say, oh, that's one embryo.
What are we counting when we say that's one embryo? What is there really one of?
But what we're really counting is stories. We're counting how many different stories there are
in this tissue that the cells are committed to as far as where they're going to go in anatomical
space. We're counting commitment and they're aligned. All of these, under normal circumstances,
all of these cells are aligned there. They've bought into one single story and this is what
they're going to build. That's what we mean when we say there's one embryo. You might ask a similar
question in the brain. If I showed you a human brain and you didn't know what a human was, you
could ask, so how many individual cells fit here? Like, what's the density of cells per, you know,
per unit volume of this medium? And computers, we kind of have some idea of how much information
fits into a certain number of transistors or whatnot. But here we actually don't know.
And the amazing thing is that if you take this early embryonic blaster and use a needle to scratch,
put some scratches into it, and I used to do this in duck embryos when I was a grad student,
what happens is that each of these little islands doesn't feel the presence of the others
for a while until it heals up. And so it goes and self-organizes an embryo. And then you get conjoined
twins like this. You can get triplets. You can get all sorts of things. And so a couple of interesting
things here. First of all, the number of individuals that come out of this excitable medium is not
known in advance. It's certainly not determined by the genetics. It could be zero, one, probably up to
half a dozen. So how many cells, how many individuals are really in there? Well, you don't know until
they self-organize. And that process of self-organization is critical. One of the things they
have to do is determine boundaries. Where do I end and the outside world begins? Or in this case,
some other embryo begins. Actually, some of the cells at this intersection are a little confused.
That's why in conjoined twins, one of the twins will often have a laterality defect.
We actually figured out why in the 96 for the first time. Why conjoined twins tend to have a
laterality of flipping in one of the twins? It's because these cells can't quite tell,
am I the right side of this guy or am I the left side of this guy? But overall,
they have to establish their boundaries. And the analogy to the brain is actually still apropos
because we have lots of examples of split brain patients, dissociative identity disorders,
all of these kinds of things where it's entirely not obvious that our brain is host to just one
coherent self. And so one way that I've been working on to start thinking about how to
understand beings, goal-directed beings in very different embodiments is to put aside the question
of what you're made of or whether you were engineered or evolved and really just to ask
about the size of your goals. What's the largest goal you're capable of pursuing? And so that gives
rise to this idea of a cognitive light cone. It's kind of like a Minkowski cone except a little
bit upside down. And so if you collapse a space onto this axis and time onto this axis, you can
see that different kinds of creatures can have different scopes to the goals that they can
conceive of. I mean, humans actually may be uniquely, their cognitive light cone is bigger
than their own lifespan. And that may provide some for some interesting psychological pressures.
If you're a goldfish, you may have some goals 20 minutes into the future,
but those goals are probably pretty achievable. It's very likely that you will live for the
next 20 minutes. So all your goals are achievable. For many humans, they know their goals are
guaranteed not achievable because they can see and commit to goals that are bigger than their
known lifespan. So for now anyway, this is something that makes humans kind of unique.
And then of course, we are all compound bodies of lots of little subunits that have their own
goals in various spaces that compete, cooperate, and interact with each other. Now, this kind of
this crazy way of thinking about things as this cognitive light cone has clinical implications.
And I like this not just because I want to make advances in biomedicine, but also because this
is how we know that some of this philosophizing is actually on the right track. So this
is the tiny cognitive light cone of a single cell. All it really cares about is the state's
locally here. But what evolution did is scale it up via mechanisms that I haven't really had time
to talk about, but bioelectricity is one of them. It's now the cognitive light cone is huge. It's
the size of this whole limb. All of these cells, they're not pursuing their own local agendas,
they're pursuing this triangle. But that has a failure mode. And that failure mode is cancer.
So once individual cells disconnect from the network, they roll back to their unicellular
cells. They can't conceive of these grandiose goals anymore. All they can remember is proliferate
as much as you can and eat as much as you can and go wherever life is good. And this is a human
glioblastoma. That's cancer. And so one of the things you might do then is on this weird way
of looking at things is instead of targeting the genes or being worried about genetic
defects or trying to kill these cells with toxic chemotherapy, you might say, well,
what if we just forcibly reconnect them to the rest of the organism? So here's a tadpole injected
with a human oncogene. And the bioelectric imaging already tells you, yeah, here's the first thing
that happens when these cells transform is they disconnect electrically from the rest of the
body. They acquire this aberrant voltage pattern. And if we co-inject an ion channel, it doesn't
kill the cells. In fact, you can see here, the red is the oncoprotein. It's very strong. In fact,
it's all over the place. This is the same animal. There's no tumor because even though the hardware
of these guys is a little screwy because they've got this oncoprotein, they're being forced
informationally to be part of this continuum. And that causes them to be part of a collective
intelligence that just builds nice organs. Now, again, we're able to do all this, make eyes and
