Thank you so much. That's very kind. And it's been a real honor and a privilege to get to
know Bill and work together on these projects. So thank you for inviting me here. This is
a new kind of audience for me. And I've put together a talk that I haven't given before.
So let's see how it goes. By the way, if anybody's interested afterwards in the details, all
of the sort of official peer-reviewed kind of stuff, the software, the papers, everything is
here. And then here are sort of a little bit more personal thoughts about what I think it all means
and things like that. So let's begin here. This is a well-known painting. It's called Adam Names
the Animals in the Garden of Eden. And there are two interesting things about this old story.
One of them, I think, is needs to really be redone and ditched. And the other one is very
profound. And I think it's going to be important for us going forward. The one that needs to be
dropped is this idea here that there are discrete natural kinds of beings. We know what they are.
Here are these large, mostly cute sorts of animals. There's Adam. We know what they are.
They're discrete. They're different from each other. Adam, of course, is different from all of
them. And that, as you're going to see in a minute, does not do justice to the incredible plasticity
of life. Our attempts to bin it into these categories is not going to fly. What is really
profound here, I think, is that in that original story, you may or may not know that neither God
nor the angels were able to name the animals. It was Adam that had to do it. The job was on him.
And there are a couple of reasons why that might be. One is because in these old traditions,
naming something or discovering the name of something means you've discovered something about
its true inner nature. And I think that's important because we, as humans, are going to have to
discover the inner nature of a very wide set of beings that Adam could not even have begun to dream
of. The other thing is, of course, Adam's the one that has to live with them. And so his understanding
of his world and the other beings around it is going to be critical for him to develop. So I
want to talk about a few things today. First is some thoughts on information, evolution, and
selves, this notion of collective intelligence and where it comes from. I want to talk about the
paradox of change and how biology handles it. Now, the paradox of change can be said as follows.
This is scaled to the level of evolution, but I think you will see the obvious implications for
personal and possibly company growth and things like that. The paradox is this, if you're a species
and you fail to change, you're going to go extinct. But if you do change, you likewise will, in an
important sense, cease to exist. So what does that mean? How do we, as beings, preserve ourselves in
some sense as we inevitably change? We change physically, we change mentally. If you don't
change mentally, you can't learn. So there's some sense in which profound educational process changes
you so that you're not the same, certainly growing up, but we'll do that and so on. So this is a
really interesting paradox and I'm going to show you how I think biology handles it. And we're
going to talk about a few other topics such as plasticity, diverse intelligence, and creative
interpretation, a.k.a. polycomputing that biology uses across scales. And we're going to look at it,
we're going to start our journey here through the eyes of a frog with an eye on its butt. Now,
if anybody asks you in the future, have you ever seen a frog with an eye on its butt, now you can
say yes. This is a frog we have made in our lab. This is not Photoshop. This is not AI. This is
a real eye on its butt. And the reason that these kinds of things are possible is because
biology commits to a certain kind of creative process to solve this problem. The way the way
that frog came to be is that we took a tadpole. So here's a tadpole, here's the brain, the nostrils,
the mouth, the gut, the tail. And what we did was we put some eyes, some eye cell precursor cells
on the back of this tadpole. The cells go ahead and they make an eye. I'll tell you another story
about ectopic eyes in a minute, but that's how we did this is by transplantation. You'll also
note that he doesn't have any primary eyes. So we prevented those from forming, but we put an eye on
his tail. And then we built this machine. This was an incredible ordeal. It took probably five
years, about a million bucks, which is huge for a lab, to build this kind of thing. And what the
machine does is test these tadpoles in visual assays. So basically, there's a little spot of
light and they have to either chase or stay away from the moving light in order to succeed in that
task. And we found out that they can see quite well. These eyes on their backs enable them to
see perfectly well. By the way, here's the optic nerve. You can trace it. It does not go to the
brain. It goes to the spinal cord and then it stops there. So notice what's happened here is that
this animal has a radically different sensory motor architecture. You've got now this weird itchy
patch of tissue on your back that's sending signals to your spinal cord. How does the brain know that
that's visual data and use it? And in particular, why doesn't that take extra evolutionary cycles?
You know, cycles of mutation, selection, it's just ready to roll. You've drastically changed
this architecture that's been the same for millions of years and suddenly it works. And it
works because evolution doesn't actually make specific solutions to specific problems. It makes
problem-solving agents. And embryos, as I'll point out in a few minutes, can't take much for
granted. They solve these things on the fly, which is why this works. Now, what this has to do with
collective intelligence is this. We all started life right here as a single cell. I once pointed
out to somebody, I was doing some expert witness work and they were trying to, one of the attorneys
was trying to say that our work in frog was not relevant to humans. And he said, don't frogs come
from an egg? I said, will you come from an egg? And this was like everybody thought I was insulting
him, you know, the judge bang the thing. But let's remember, we all come from an egg. We all come
from a single cell. And that's a little blob of chemistry and physics. And that slowly and gradually
gives rise to one of these remarkable morphologies. And there is no magic spot, no lightning flash
that says, okay, you wore physics, but now you're a real cognitive individual. Now, mind comes into
the picture. This is slow and gradual. So we, then as scientists and philosophers, do need to understand
how does that scaling work? How do you get from a system that's well-described by chemistry and
physics? And as I'll mention, actually, not with zero cognitive capacity, it's small, but it's not
zero. How do you get here? And let's remember that we humans with our magical, agential glow
are not discreetly different from all of these other things. We stand at the intersection of two
enormous continuums where you can both, both evolutionarily and developmentally. And then,
you know, through biological change and through technological change, there are all kinds of
interesting beings that we're going to need to get to know. So that's a little disturbing. And a lot
of people, a lot of people, they send me emails about how disturbed they are to find out that
they were basically a scale up from a single cell. But at least we're a true unified intelligence,
right? So like we're not like a collection of ants or termites or something that you can talk
about an ant colony as a collective intelligence, but we're an actual true unified intelligence,
right? Well, wrong. So this is Descartes, who really liked the pineal gland. And the reason
he liked the pineal gland is that there's only one of them in the brain. And he felt that our
unified human experience should be associated with a structure in the brain. That's unique, not
bifurcated, not to like the hemispheres or all these other structures. It should be the only one.
Well, if he had had access to good microscopy, he would have looked inside the pineal gland and
you would have seen that, wait a minute, there's not one of anything. It's made of a bunch of cells.
Each one of these cells has all this stuff in it. So look at this. These are all the things that are
inside of each cell. And there's plenty more. This is only what we know to stain at this point.
And so all intelligence is collective intelligence. We are all built of a kind of multi-scale
agential material. This is a single cell. This happens to be a free living organism known as
a lacrimaria. But look, this is what a single cell can do. There's no brain. There's no nervous
system. He's handling all of his local needs with, and this is real time. So incredible anatomical,
physiological, and metabolic control and so on. And so we're all made of collections of these.
And the thing about being a collective intelligence is that you need cognitive glue.
Now what I mean by that is, here's a rat that's been trained to press a lever, get a reward.
There is no single cell here that has had both experiences. So the cells at the bottom of the
feet interacted with the lever. The cells in the gut got the delicious sugar reward. But no single
cell had both of these experiences. So who owns the associative memory? Who is it that knows that
these two things are tied? It isn't any individual cell. It is the rat. So you've got this. You've
got what you need is a set of mechanisms that are able to provide the system with memories,
preferences, goals, and other cognitive properties that the individual parts don't have.
Now we're used to thinking about ones like this, and creatures like this are fairly,
the rat doesn't change too much, but there are many other creatures that show us something
really remarkable. So here are some flatworms, some plenarium. You can train them to understand
that these little bumpy circles that we've laser etched into the bottom of the dish are where they
get fed. So the liver shows up on these little circles. The other amazing thing about plenaria
is that they regenerate. So you can cut them into pieces. The record is something like 276 pieces,
and if you cut them in half here, this tail will sit there doing nothing for about eight days. It'll
grow a new head, and then behavior begins, and you find out that these animals remember the
original information. So the information is not exclusively in the brain because you can cut off
the entire head. It is somewhere else. However, it is imprinted onto the new brain as it develops.
And so you can do all kinds of interesting thought experiments, like the old malfunctioning
transporter, and ask, okay, if we cut them into pieces, who's the original plenaria, and so on.
So right away you get into these issues of personal identity. You get into where is behavioral
information? How does it move through the body? How does it imprint it onto new brains? How do
brains know how to interpret? Just like I showed you in the tadpole, the brain knows how to interpret
information coming off of its spinal cord. How does this brain know that whatever the tail is
telling it is actually behavioral information that the brain can use? But it goes even beyond that.
It's not just about maintaining the information. Here's one of my favorite examples. So here's
a caterpillar, two-dimensional. You can model it as a soft-bodied robot with a particular
controller, and that's suitable for moving soft bodies that have no hard elements, so you can't
push on anything. So these things crawl around and they eat leaves, and they have a brain that's
well suited for that. They have to turn into this. This is a butterfly that flies in three-dimensional
space, doesn't eat leaves, it drinks nectar. And in order to change the brain from this to that,
you basically undergo this remarkable transformation process that dissolves most of the brain.
Many of the cells die, most of the connections are broken, but what you find out is that if you
train the caterpillar to seek out leaves on a particular color disc, the butterfly will do
the same. Now there's a few amazing things here. You can ask questions like, what's it like to be
a creature in the process of changing so radically? Questions like that, and you can ask where is
the memory? If the brain is being refactored, where does it keep those memories? But there's a
deeper issue here, which is that butterflies don't eat the same stuff that caterpillars eat,
and they don't move the same way the caterpillars move. So having the exact memories of a caterpillar
is completely useless. What it has to do actually is interpret whatever the engrams, whatever the
memory traces that the caterpillar leaves, it has to reinterpret them for its new context. So in its
new higher dimensional life, it doesn't carry the exact memories of its previous life, but it
carries the deep lessons that it's learned. And the trick here is that it has to know how to
remap them onto its own architecture. So you can read a lot more about this in this preprint
that I just put up a few days ago. So the interesting thing is that these worms and
caterpillars and so on, we shouldn't just think about them as this sort of bizarre
aspect of biology that has nothing to do with us. Because if you think about the slices of
our own life at any given moment, you don't have access to the past. The only thing you have access
to are the engrams, the traces of past experience that your past self has laid down in your brain,
in your body, in notepads, in various outsourced kinds of things. You have to reinterpret those
memories at every point. You have to reconstruct actively the story of who you are, what you are,
what your various commitments and beliefs are from the molecules and the energy patterns that are
in your body. And you have to tell a story about what they add up to. This is what our brain does
all the time. One way to think about this is that memories are messages from your past self.
Just the way that you exchange messages laterally with other beings at your current
time point. These memories are messages from a past self. And like any act of communication,
you're not actually required to interpret these messages in the way that the sender intended.
You are free to reinterpret them, however it's best for you. And not only are you free to do that,
you actually have to do that because you will change. Your body will change, the environment
changes. Even for humans, there's turnover. There's molecular turnover and cellular turnover
all the time. So all of these messages have to be turned over. And the way that this works,
you can imagine that these engrams, these memory traces are like this middle node, this narrow
little middle node in what this is probably familiar to many of you, this kind of
this architecture that's used like an autoencoder kind of thing where it squeezes down
all of the information that's come before because you don't want it to remember the exact data.
You want it to remember patterns. And then you pass the bottleneck, you want this side to
reinflate those patterns into whatever makes sense on the other end. Biology has this everywhere in
gene regulatory networks and voltage at the center of bioelectrical circuits in biomechanical
networks. This architecture is absolutely everywhere because this is what enables information to
preserve salience, not accuracy, but salience and utility on the other end. Now this will only work
if the two ends of this thing are smart. They have to undertake some effort to interpret
and encode what's going on here. So our bodies are made of a multi-scale competency architecture.
Every level of this is in fact smart in the sense that it has a competency to solve various problems.
So whole bodies of course solve problems in three-dimensional space, various kinds of behaviors,
but your molecular networks, your subcellular organelles, your cellular components, your organs,
tissues, all of these things solve problems in other kinds of spaces. And in fact, one thing
that evolution has done is to pivot some of the same tools and tricks for navigating problem spaces
across these various spaces. So we started off metabolic space and then physiological space and
then genes came along and you could navigate gene expression space and then multicellularity came
along and you could navigate anatomical space, the space of possible large-scale shapes. And then,
of course, brains and muscles showed up and you could do behavioral space and then eventually
linguistic space. And it turns out from some recent work in our group that actually some of
the exact same ideas from navigating these other spaces you can use to help AIs navigate linguistic
space and keep track of a story longer and longer and so on. So Alan Turing, who obviously needs
no introduction, who was very interested in minds and intelligence and different embodiments of
intelligence and machines and so on, he was studying intelligence through reprogrammability,
right? He was interested in programmable hardware and plasticity. Interestingly,
he wrote this paper, The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis. It's one of the earliest works on
the mathematics of how order might arise in chemical systems like that egg that I showed you.
So he was interested how do you, how does the egg self-assemble? How do the chemicals assume
some sort of order? Now, why would somebody who was interested in mathematics and computer science
and so on be interested in this question? And I think that he saw a very profound kind of
invariance that I think if he had lived longer, both biology and computer science would be much
further along because what he realized was that the story of the appearance of minds is fundamentally
the same story as the story of the self-assembly of the body, right? The factors that put together
your body should be really important for understanding where minds come from. So let's
ask where do anatomies come from? So you start life as a collection of embryonic blastomeres.
This is a cross-section through an adult human. Look at the amazing order. All of the organs,
they're the right size, the right shape. Everything is next to the correct thing.
Where does this amazing order come from? Where is this pattern written down? And so if you ask,
even nine-year-olds, I've given talks to middle schools and they will immediately say, well,
it's in the DNA. It's in the genome. But the thing is that we can read genomes now. And actually,
this was apparent long before, but now we know for sure because we can read genomes. None of this
is directly in the genome. What's in the genome are the specifications of the proteins, the tiniest
hardware, the molecular hardware that cells get to have. This pattern, any more than the actual
structure of the termite colony or the precise pattern of a spider web are not in their genome.
