normalize tumors and induce like regeneration in animals that don't regenerate and so on.
Not because we're so smart or we're doing some kind of crazy synthetic biology. All we're doing
is hacking the native competency of the tissue. And by the way, oh, and one other thing I wanted
to say is that these cancer cells are not more selfish than normal cells. There's a lot of game
theory that models cancer is being more selfish. I don't think they're more selfish. I think they
have smaller selves. So you can be as selfish as you want as long as your cognitive light cone
is large enough to encompass many possibly all beings and then it's fine.
And so there's this issue and this is something that Bill and our other collaborators are actually
working on this notion of increasing the cone of compassion outwards. So the interesting thing
about us engineering all this is that we are not the only bioengineers. This is another,
this is a non human bioengineer. And look, this is a this is an oak leaf. And you might think that
well, acorns always make oak trees and these leaves, we know what the oak genome does, right?
It makes these flat green things. But but here comes this bioengineer doesn't change the genome,
the hardware is perfectly capable. You don't need to rewire it. I don't have to explain to this crowd
why, you know, you don't use a soldering iron when you want to go from PowerPoint to Microsoft
Word on your laptop. This this this this animal takes advantage of exactly that,
which is that it lays down some signals that prompt the cells to build something completely
different. This is made of the of the plant cells, not the not the not the animal. Would we have any
idea that these cells are capable of building something like this or like this, right? If we
hadn't done this, we would not. And so for that reason, in our lab, we make a number of synthetic
creatures to really test the plasticity, the the the ability of these of the hardware to undergo
novel novel scenarios. And this is we call these xenobots, because what what happens here is that
some some skin cells are harvested from the top of a frog embryo. They self assemble into this
little thing, which I think is a biorebotics platform. And we are interested in knowing where
their goals come from. So here you can see they swim. They can go in circles, they can patrol back
and forth, they have collective behaviors. Here's one going through through a maze. So it comes down
this this arm of the maze over here, it's going to take a turn without bumping into the opposite
wall. So it takes a turn. And at this point, due to some internal mech, who knows why it turns around
and goes back where it came where it came from. Remember, this is just skin. Okay, there's no
there's no nervous system. There's nothing in there. One amazing thing they do is kinematic
replication. So if you provide them with loose skin cells, they will run around and combine them
into these little these little piles and work them and polish them. And because they're working
with an agential material, for the same reason we were able to do this, not because we know how to
how to change the way these cells behave, but we liberated them into a new context. And these
little piles mature into the next generation of xenobots. And guess what they do? They run around
and they make the next generation and the next. This is basically von Neumann's dream of a robot
that makes copies of itself from materials it finds in the environment. And so if you ask,
what does a frog genome know? Well, it certainly knows how to do this how to make this developmental
the hardware that goes through this developmental sequence, and, and then has these these kind
of behaviors, there's some tadpoles. But apparently, it also can do this. And the amazing thing is that
there's never been any xenobots, there's never been any evolutionary pressure to be a good xenobot,
where did all this come from? Why is there this weird developmental stage of this xenobot? This is
an 80 year old, 80 day old xenobot, it's changing into something, we have no idea what, they have
their own behaviors, they do this kinematic replication that no one else, as far as we know,
no other organism does. So, so this is really the thing when you make, or when you facilitate
novel collective intelligences that have never been here before. And that includes financial
structures, social structures, internet of things, who knows, we make these things all the time.
We really don't know where, where their goals come from, what their goals are going to be,
what their capacity for problem solving is going to be, we need to understand.
And lest you think that this is some special, I mean, these these cells come from an amphibian,
they come from an embryo, you might think amphibians are plastic, embryos are pretty
plastic, this is probably some some crazy embryonic cell thing. Well, here is this little creature,
if I asked you what you thought this was, you might think we got it off the bottom of a pond
somewhere. If you were to sequence its genome, you would see 100% Homo sapiens. This is, these
are human cells, they come from an adult human patient, no embryo stuff, adult human tracheal
epithelial cells, they make something we call anthrobots. We, this is a type of agential intervention,
because these anthrobots, remarkably, we found a novel capability. The capability is, and I'm
sure there are many others, is just the first thing we found, is that if you played a bunch of
human neurons and you scratch them, so you make a wound right here, these anthrobots will traverse
down the wound. And when they settle down, what they'll do is they start knitting the two sides
together, they heal this this this neural defect. And so who would have known that your tracheal
cells, which sit there quietly in your airway for decades, if you take them out and you let them
have a new life, reboot their multicellularity, have a new life in the new environment,
they become this little motile creature that can run around, by the way, can be injected back into
your body. There's no immune suppression needed because it's your own cells. It shares all the
priors with your own tissues about what health and disease are, what cancer is, what inflammation is.
And among other things, what they can do is they can actually repair neural defects.
And so, so that's just kind of the biomedical side of things, but, but more fundamentally,
and I'm just about done, I know I'm over time a couple minutes.
Just fundamentally, what we see is that what I think these are, and this is not a,
this is not the conventional, you know, view of my colleagues, I don't think, but, but what I think
we're looking at in all of these examples is vehicles for exploring a platonic space or a
latent space of possibilities. When we ask where do the shape and behavior of xenobots,
of anthrobots, of other chimeras, and of the weird things that we make, where do they come from?
Well, evolutionary selection is not where they come from. And I think that what normal embryos do
is exploit a little pinprick, a one single point of interface between this platonic space and the
physical world, and you get your standard reliable body. But, but what we can do is we can start to
enlarge these little holes by making anthrobots and xenobots and other things. We can start making
holes and, and looking around and starting to understand the structure of that space. What
else is out there? I, I really think that what we're studying here is, is the structure of this,
of this space that's around us and still very poorly understood. So just, just a couple things
to, to finish up here. First of all, here's what I think the biology teaches us. Everything is going
to change. Your body is going to change, your parts, the environment, everything is going to change.
It's futile to try to hold on to specific details. And in particular, biology uses an extremely
unreliable material. Everything is within, within a cell is going to go bad. There's, there's huge
amounts of noise. It's, it's exactly the opposite of what we do in computers, where we make very
reliable parts and we try to insulate each level from the level below. You don't, you know, you,
you just sort of assume the level below is going to work. And then, and then that's how we program.
That is the opposite of what biology does. Biology assumes the material is going to go
wrong in a million ways. Whether you're a genome, whether you're, you're a genome that has to be
reinterpreted by the species as it changes, you know, your parts are going to change. You're going
to be mutated and your environment will change. You have to reinterpret it. Brains do the same
as they change over time. They reinterpret their memories. Intelligence is everywhere.
That's because the only way to do this kind of, this kind of thing, this committing to salience
as opposed to accuracy means that intelligence has to be everywhere. Every part of the body has
to be able to reinterpret, confabulate, tell stories, new stories about what it saw and,
and what information it has to solve whatever the, the new problems are. This is polycomputing,
which, which Josh Barnagar and I work out, work on the idea that biology has is, is just a
huge collection of systems which interpret and reinterpret each other's computations in different
ways. The exact same computation means different things to different observers. So it's an observer
focused view. You can't say, what is it really computing? And from that perspective, each self
is a, is a dynamic construction. It's an ongoing process of sense making of your own memories and
the environment and it's self reinforcing. These are, these are, these are basically
points of view. These are self reinforcing, continuously modifying points of view that seek
to perpetuate themselves by making sense of whatever's going on now. And this is, this is a
very deep idea from William James where he said, thoughts are the thinkers. If we sort of dissolve
the idea of the distinction between data and machine, right? And we, and we think that the
pattern itself is actually helping construct its niche. So it's constructing the cognitive system
within which it will prosper. Then, then all of us are really very complex bundles of, of thoughts
that have sort of closed the loop and learn to contribute to their own persistence within various
physical cognitive systems. And because biology is so interoperable, because biology solves all
of this on the fly, it doesn't, doesn't assume anything. Pretty much any combination of evolved
material, designed or engineered material and software is some kind of viable agent. So we
already have some cyborgs and we're going to have lots more in there, hybrids and chimeres and
all kinds of just different bodies and minds where all of Darwin's endless forms, most beautiful
on earth are a tiny little dot in this enormous option space of new bodies and new minds. So,
so these, so the need now for a new ethical synthbiosis is clear. This, this old idea that we
can decide how we're going to relate to something based on what does it look like and how did it
get here? Did it come from a factory or was it naturally evolved by the random processes of
evolution? Those two criteria are going to be out the window. We're going to have to deal with
beings that are nowhere on the tree of life with us that don't offer us easy answers the way that
for example, current AIs do when, you know, you can, you can kind of distinguish them
strongly from, from biology, but, but boy, we're going to be surrounded by, by beings that are
composites and none of those answers will be so, so trivial. And this is Jeremy Gay. He's an amazing
graphic artist who drew this for me. This is kind of a new version of Adam and the, and the Garden
of Eden because we've got our job cut out for us, but it's, it's going to be an amazing journey
because we are finally going to, I hope, get better at detecting and, and relating to very
diverse minds all around us. So I'm going to stop here. If you're interested in any of this stuff,
it's discussed in various papers here. These are the people I want to thank, a number of postdocs
and PhD students that did the work that I showed you today. Lots of our collaborators. These are
the, the people who fund us on disclosures. So these are three spin-off companies for my group
that have funded our work and most thanks of all to the actual animals that we deal with.
So yeah, that's it. Thank you so much for listening.
