where sensors has some information about whatever it monitors. And the effector can do something
about it. It has some choices. Thermostat and AC, for example, like thermosensor knows what
temperature is. AC has options to increase or decrease, to turn on and off and so forth.
Same with beta cell and liver, beta cell knows what glucose concentration liver knows what to do
about it. When beta cell tells it what to do through insulin. So this is a general relation.
What are other possible types of relation? I'm not going to dwell on many of them, but I will
just mention one or two more. So the second type is a functional relation. And this relates to a
more familiar notion of division of labor. So here we have a classical textbook division of labor,
when two cells are specialized on performing two different functions, A and B, independently of
each other. The second type of relation would be division of labor, would be when two cells
both contribute to the same function. And if you remove either of them, there is no function.
So modern neuron and skeletal muscle form the motor unit, and you need both types of cells to
have that function of movement. So they are functionally complementary. So that's that's
now a type of relation. Here we can say this is also a relation, but it's a null relation.
Here it's a complementary functional complementarity. The third type of relation that hasn't
been described in literature, but I think is equally important, is a relation when one cell
type is specialized on a particular function. Another cell type is fully dedicated just
supporting the function of the other cell. So example would be, for example, again,
this could be modern neuron, and the supporting cell would be Schwann cell. So the whole purpose
of life for Schwann cell is to support function of the neuron. Neuron is the one that performs
primary function. Schwann cell just helps it to perform it better. There are neurons without
Schwann cells. There are no Schwann cells without neurons. Schwann cell doesn't have meaning outside
of the neuron. It's like a gold player and caddy. We can play both without a caddy, but caddy without
a gold player makes no sense. And that's what how some cells are, a pericyte and the trivial cell,
the same example and so forth. So there are many cell types, particularly in more complex
metazones, that are of this type where they perform supportive functions,
and then other cell types perform primary functions. So here we have, again, a relation.
It's like somebody who has, let's say, servants, like cooks and drivers, cleaners.
There is that type of relation. So what happens is that the driver, cleaner and cook, in this case,
are defined by their relation to whoever they serve. And what that also illustrates is the way
that this type of relation evolves is that when this cell type gets more and more specialized on
a particular function, what it means that when you specialize on something, it means you do
fewer things better and better, right? Fewer and fewer things better and better. If you are like a
famous, whatever, piano player and you don't have time to clean and shop and do chores,
you hire people who do that for you. But what it means you delegate some of the functions
to supporting staff, supporting cells. So neuron delegates a lot of functions to
bleed your cells, for example. And the same is true for all the other primary cell types.
They can be bothered to perform the same functions if you expect them to be
optimal at performing one function. That's what happens with humans. Also, of course, we get
progressively more specialized. And in the process of that, we delegate some of the functions to
other cells. And that in itself raises an interesting question. What can you delegate?
So, obviously, you can delegate functions that are not cell autonomous, but you cannot
delegate cell autonomous functions. You can delegate cooking to somebody you hire to cook for
you, but you cannot delegate eating, right? So certain types of functions are delegated and
these are non cell autonomous functions. And the genes that perform these functions can now
be expressed in cells that are supporting the performance support function. And that's what
seen in gene expression profiles and tissue specific characteristics of cells that are
ubiquitous in tissues like macrophages and so forth. So these are some other examples. I'm not
going to go through all of them, but these are some other examples of cell relations
that we can think of. This can be already mentioned, instructive relation, functional
relations, then there could be supply consumer relation, hierarchical relations, and there
could be also relations based on mutual exclusivity. For example, if cell A is present somewhere,
it's never in a company of cell B. These are mutually excluded. We don't know, I mean,
the examples like this exist, but we don't know if these are, they need to be defined in a more
strict way. This is more for, for illustration purposes here. Okay, so from here, we can now
go back to this picture we had before. And now we can look at a very different light. We can say,
okay, what do we have here? We have these various types of cells. They're not all equally important
because you can remove some of the cells and tissue will retain its architecture. You can
remove T cells and you lose some functionalities, but you still have the same tissue architecture.
You remove fibroglas and it collapses. So they are unequal in that regard. And what that means
is that some cells are more important than others for tissue architecture. They all have
their distinct functionalities, but in terms of tissue architecture, they are not equal.
And that raises the question, which ones are the most important ones? And so we can also now
look at it from the perspective in structural relations, functional relations, and so on. So
now instead of being concerned with cell shapes and whatever, transcriptomics, proteomics, these
sort of things, we can label them as different, different categories and the patterns would
start emerging, right? And so if you imagine them just as little circles, it is different colors.
And we defined relations between colors. So the colors will represent categories.
And so if we start thinking about what are the most fundamental categories and what are the most
important, important cell types for tissue architecture, for organization of tissues,
not for functionalities, for organization of tissues. As I mentioned in the very beginning
of MetaZone Life, it was a bacterial mesenchymal unit with the basement membrane in between,
and that's what led to the diversification of various types of organization. In vertebrates,
I think we have a minimal tissue unit that is based on that original theme,
and that minimal unit consists of four types of cells or four categories. Three of them correspond
to types usually for most organs, but these are categories. So we have a category of a tissue
specific cell that is responsible for core tissue function. This is the cell type responsible for
the primary function of the tissue. In the brain, it would be neuron, in the gut, it would be gut
epithelium, and so forth. And then we always have three additional cell types that are nearly
universally present in all tissues, and that includes, of course, microvascular endothelium.
It includes stromal cell, fibroblast-like cells, and it includes tissue resin macrophage.
So these three correspond to cell types performing supportive functions. So now we define this
minimal unit based on relation between these supportive cell types that are universal in
every tissue and tissue-specific primary cell type that obviously perform these different
different tissues because it performs tissue-specific primary functions. Now in the gut, we have,
let's say, intestinal epithelium, then we have these three cell types. They are not involved in the
primary function of the gut, which is digestion absorption, but without these cell types, of
course, epithelial cells cannot perform that function. In the brain, we have neurons and
glial cells, the same idea. So these supportive cell types are always there to
support the function of the client cell. So we can call this a client cell by analogy with
chaperones. And so then what we have is that client cells delegate some of the functions to
supportive cell types, and some delegated functions need to be performed all the time
constitutionally, and this become tissue-resident cells. But some functions only need to be performed
on demand. And these are delegated to cells that are not resident in the tissue, but can be recruited
to the tissue. And this is the case for vertebrates, or any animal is plus circulation. And that would
be the case of inflammatory cells. So neutrophils, you only need them when there is an infection,
whereas macrophage, you need in tissue all the time, because macrophages have many jobs.
They're like butlers. They can do a lot of things. But when there is a really big problem,
you need specialists, and there would be neutrophils. And so then we can think of the way that the
biological development of tissue architecture goes from this base case, which is what the
beginning of animal life history, as well as the beginning of any animal during development,
embryonic development, starts with a pithelium, then generate mesenchymal by EMT, and then from
there you go through this process of instructive relations and generate all kinds of tissues.
But the derived case that is universal theme now for vertebrate architecture organization,
this is only talking about compositional organization, not spatial organization.
The general theme would be that you always have the primary cell type, which is the primary
function of tissue, it's tissue specific and three supportive cell types. And that's what we can think
of as a first approximation. This is of course in very broad strokes. And this is only thinking
about the compositional organization of tissue, not structural. But even from that perspective,
there are many deep questions one can ask. We don't know the answers to most of them,
but mostly I would say because the questions have not been asked that way. So one has to do with
one of my big interests for me is understanding biology of cell communication and particularly
biology of growth act. So every cell in the animal, every normal cell that is not cancerous cell
requires specific growth factors to stay alive and to be present in the tissue.
The cells that don't have their specific growth factor will die by default. So cell composition
of tissue is dictated by local availability of these linear restricted growth factors for macrophage
to be CSF1 from fibroblast PDG of beta and so forth. In the telial cells, whether they're
GMF and other angiogenic factors, and the cell will have different growth factors depending
on what the identity is. So then the question becomes that the cell composition, because it's
a function of local availability of specific growth factors, what kind of cell in what amounts,
in what location you will have in the tissue is entirely dictated by local provisional growth
factor in particular place in particular amounts. So then the question then becomes what are the
rules and mechanisms that ensure production of appropriate growth factors in the right amounts
in the right places. And that, because we don't know those rules, I think that that provides a
major, major conceptual gap in our understanding of development and tissue biology. So we're
interested in this question and this is of course, this is not one set of rule, it needs a systematic
study and of course in the lab we can only do, you know, proof of concept studies. So the question
is as follows. So the growth factors of that type, the type that are called linear restricted
growth factors that are necessary for each cell to survive. Production of these growth factors is
typically the source of them is another cell type. If this is growth factor for cell Y,
it's typically produced by cell X, which is a different cell type. So cell X makes growth
factor for cell Y and the amount of that growth factor determines the number of cell Y is where
they are location, because these growth factors typically have small diffusion radius, and they
are often deposited on ECM. And then question becomes how does these cells, cell X knows which
growth factor to make and how much to make. Okay, we can say well, which growth factor to make
could be hard wires, it could be part of the identity that if you sell X, you program to make
growth factor for cell Y, that's fair assumption. And there are cases when it is indeed the case
that it's produces, it's already knows which growth factor to make. In other cases, it needs to be
told. And it can be told by cell Y itself. Cell Y tells it that I need, my identity is Y, and I
need growth factor that supports cell Y. And what that communication is like, that's the part that
we also interested in understanding, and we still don't know all the details, but we know that there
is indeed this type of communication. So the question is what determines this, this
controls the appropriate production level. And I'll go through this example very quickly,
because it was published, but we use microphase fibroblasts as a case study to as a proof of
concept study to characterize in exchange of these two growth factors, which are well defined for
these cells, it's CSF1 for macrophage produced by fibroblasts and PDGF for fibroblasts produced by
macrophage. And what we found in that study a few years ago is that if we define conditions such that
if you take individually the cell type, and don't provide exogenous recombinant growth factors,
they will die as expected, each of them will die. But because they can each produce growth
factor for the other guy, we ask whether they can support each other under those conditions where
there is no external growth factor. And they can indeed, and not only that, they could also
reach stable ratio, even if we vary initial ratio by hundredfold, they all convert to stable ratio,
which implies that they're not simply feeding each other growth factor that would lead to
uncontrolled growth, but rather there is some kind of a circuit design of the exchange of growth
factors that results in stability. And indeed, there is a circuit design that results in stability,
and it's shown here. So that's what we found both experimentally and through modeling,
that the for the two cell types to be stable, one has to be limited by carrying capacity, which is
limitation external to the system, just like in ecology, carrying capacity, space, food, and so
on. And the other cell type has to be limited, it has to have a negative feedback on a growth
factor it receives from the first cell type. And as long as these two conditions are met,
you can, you will have a stable system. But these conditions are met only in 24 out of
144 total cases of total number of possible cell circuit topologies. Of them only 24 are
stable, and all of them have these two conditions met. And this is what it would look like if X1
is here would be fibroblast X2 macrophage, this is a phase portrait of the dynamic behavior,
we have the same experimental data. And this is the predicted on state, which is what we observe.
And as you can see, the system will evolve towards the stable on state, and this is stable
off state when there are no cells. But what was interesting in this case, it also, we also found
additional on state, stable on state for one cell type for fibroblast, but only when the density
of the cell was above some threshold. And in ecology, this type of phenomenon is known as
Ali effect. Ali effect means that population will undergo expansion, only if it is above
some critical density. So for example, and for penguins, they cannot survive in the
wild if there is not enough of them, because they need to huddle to keep each other warm.
Pack of wolves, one wolf would not survive because they hunt in packs and things like that.
So this is Ali effect. And we see that there is Ali effect in cell ecology as well. And specifically
for fibroblasts, it requires if they reach critical density, they now can support each
other without macrophage. And the reason for that is this autographed signal. And that signal is
provided by PTGF alpha and HBGF. And so that that's what type of scenarios we see that for
this is stable observed state. With autographed signal, you have this additional stable state
that could be pathological because when you have fibroblasts without macrophage, this is basically
the case of fibrosis. So this type of circuit design creates vulnerability for fibrosis.
But then there are other designs that we find through computationally, and they presumably
exist also amongst cell-cell interactions. In this case, if you don't have autographed signal,
you don't have this pathological stable state with cell X1 alone. But on the other hand,
so these type of tissues that have the cells with this circuit of interaction will not be
vulnerable to fibrosis. But on the other hand, the basin of attraction to the off state is much
bigger here, which may suggest that these type of tissues will be vulnerable to degenerative
disease instead of fibroly disease. And this is something that we're still exploring. That's
indeed the case. So from that, what we find is that there is this relation between cells
based on growth factor production that is dictated by critical growth factor topology
and that there is a simple requirement for stability that we can define and that this
can be generalized to other types of interactions where it's the same topology doesn't. And from that
we then wanted to ask the next question, what controls the size of the compartments and tissues?
And there are two paradigms that existed side by side for decades. One paradigm for
compartmental size control is basically space availability. And that cells, if they have cells
to expand to, they will expand. When they don't have space to expand to, they stop expanding.
This is contact inhibition in vitro. But in vivo, this would apply to cells that use
mechanosensing, for example, to determine when they have to stop dividing. And this type of
mechanosensing, for example, famously operates through the hippo pathway. And that paradigm works
for these types of tissues. But it would not be applicable to tissues that are not limited by
space, like macrophages lymphocytes and a hematopoietic cell. So then the question is what
