I guess an underlying theme for what interests me the most, in biology and science in general,
to look for simple underlying principles, and my favorite, one of my favorite costos
paintings is this one that kind of illustrates that point where, as you can tell here, it goes
in this series of plates depicting a bull going from removing more and more detail until it gets
to the essence of the bull. And that's sort of my scientific reto that may be not fully embraced
in biology, universally, as it is embraced in math and physics and chemistry. And what I think is
one of the sort of big problems in the way biologists, and I mean by that mostly experimental
sort of mainstream biomedical science type of biology, is that we are addicted to complicate it
and devalue what's simple and often confuse it with what's simplistic. And in my definition,
I'd say simple is when you get rid of anything that's not essential for understanding the problem.
Simplistic is when you remove something that is important, and so it's you have to
get the right intuition not to confuse it. And complicated is when you add things that are
nonessential. And that's, I think we're all experiencing that phase in my medical research
now where there is too much of nonessential is added because methods are available to generate data.
And so that's what often makes complex systems look complicated, whereas as you all know,
the complex systems are not complicated. They have underlying simple rules. So what I chose to
talk about today is one of the aspects, one aspect of biology that we're interested in in lab,
which has to do with tissue biology and I would say cellular sociology or
social lives of cells. And because tissues are complex systems, composed of multiple
agents that are cells that interact in some way and generate all kinds of properties that we try to
understand. And the properties that we see, these are observables, and they don't tell us what the
rules are that generated them. And that's sort of the main interest in that area for me. So we think
about the notion of tissue, of course, is very familiar. It's a textbook notion. It's very commonly
used. We all kind of sort of know what we mean when we say tissues, but at the same time, they're
not well defined. If we try to give a definition to a cell, then we're fine to the organ to organ
systems, we can give formal definitions, but for tissues, we actually can't. And all the
available definitions are quite ambiguous. As our distinctions between tissues where one tissue
stops and other starts and so forth. So traditional classifications that are divide them into four
major types of epidial, connective, muscle, and neuronal. It has a limited utility, mostly when
we think in terms of development of organism, when we think in terms of pathology, in terms of
any kind of biology that operates at the tissue level, we don't think of tissues as
a peculiar versus neuronal and so on. It's always we think of it as a collection of cell types that
belong to all these different types of origin. So that's the first problem. So we are kind of
on a shaky ground to begin with, because we're dealing with something that's ill-defined.
And that leads to these major gaps in our understanding of tissues. What are the
patterns of cell organization within tissues? What aspects are pre-programmed versus emergent?
And what are general themes and what are special cases? And that's again,
something that I think biologists depreciate less than let's say physicists, distinguishing
special cases from general cases. And that's what makes this whole area so interesting and
challenging and fascinating to understand. To use tissue biology as sort of an umbrella term
for understanding social organization of cells to think of cells as agents in a complex system.
And so this is to just illustrate what exactly our gaps in understanding are. If we compare
organismal biology, cell biology, and tissue biology, it's very clear that in tissue biology we
are limited by understanding, not so much by data, but by understanding.
So in organismal biology, we can tell that these animals that look drastically different,
they're all variations on the theme of a mammal. And we can tell that there are some deviations from
the common theme that we see in whales, shrews, and so forth. But we can imagine a generic mammal
with all the universal parts, all the organ systems, they all have
central nervous system, two lungs, two kidneys, and so forth. And we know how they function,
we connect it, and we can draw a generic like a schema of a mammal. And then we can also say that
a mammal is a special case of vertebrate, which is more general schema and so forth. If we go to
cells, the biology cell level is the same, we can look at this and these are dramatically different
cells, dramatically different looking cells, especially if they were drawn to scale, it would
be even more dramatic difference. And yet we know that this is all variation on the common theme of
eukaryotic cell, mammalian cells shown here on the right. And we are not fooled by the fact that
the most abundant and most easily accessible cell type, which is a red blood cell,
actually doesn't have a nucleus in mammals. We don't conclude from that that most cell types
don't have nucleus. And therefore, this is something essential and important to understand. So
we're not confused by that because we know enough cell biology to tell that this is a special case.
And the reason I'm emphasizing this is because in here, it's an obvious case of general versus
special. But when we lack that understanding, we can be confused by looking at something that's
most common, most observable. And we don't have the right intuition to tell if it's a general case
or special case. So at tissue level, at the cell level, at organismal level, we have that type of
knowledge. But if we look at the tissue level with different tissues, and then now we can tell
whether these tissues coming from different organs all represent variations on a theme.
And what that generic theme is, and we cannot draw that generic tissue the way we can for generic
cell or generic organism. And we don't know if there is one theme, and these are also kind
of deviations or variations on that theme, or there may be more than one thing, or maybe there
are no common themes at all. But presumably, there are common things because all tissues
have to solve the same set of problems. They have to solve a problem of having the right cell type
in the right ratios, right quantities, right spatial arrangements, and so forth. They should
have some of the others. And these are the same problems every tissue in every animal has to
solve. And presumably, it's been solved once in the beginning, and then everything was built on
that solution. And therefore, we have a reason to think that there are general principles and
general themes, and everything is some variations on these themes. And some of these cases may indeed
be special cases. And that's what we want to understand, and that's what we currently don't
understand. So instead, we have this is a picture like this, which is a textbook picture of what's
supposed to be tissue. And so the questions we want to understand is what the rules that define,
for example, cellular composition of tissues, how these different cell types know that they belong
there in the right amounts, in the right proportions, in the right locations, and so forth.
And if we approach it from the way that generally we approach something unknown, we try to kind of
catalog things, we describe them by shapes by whatever some properties that we can measure.
Nowadays, we do it by single cell analysis by imaging and so forth. And we generate this ever
more complete catalog of characteristics. And that catalog doesn't bring us any closer to
addressing the questions I mentioned in the previous slide. And
there is a little doubt that having ever more complete description of cells and tissues
using whatever next generation methodologies might be that may image every single molecule,
let's say, and so forth, the amount of data will grow astronomically. And yet it's not going to
bring us any closer to addressing the questions that I mentioned in the previous slide.
And let's just use an analogy here for, like, let's say if you're an alien and you're doing,
you know, PhD thesis on human social structure, you came to Earth and you look at people and you
have this very powerful alien technologies that allow you to characterize everything you want
about every human being. And you get the characteristics like names, height, weight, color of
eyes, color of hair, insulin, glucose measurements, heart rate, and you catalog that increasingly.
You know how many cells that person has versus that person has. And clearly that kind of data
would be completely useless to understand what the human social structure is.
On the other hand, if you approach it from a different perspective, you look at the human
social group, and you start noticing that there is some ways that these different individuals
relate each other that may define not identities, like identity characteristics,
like name, height, weight, and so forth, but rather that some of them are parents and some of them
are children, some of them are husbands and wives, some of them colleagues, some of them friends,
some enemies, and so forth. And what all these words mean, these are categories. So there's a
category of the parent, category of scientists, category of neighbors. But these categories
defined, if we compare category of a parent or neighbor or friend versus the category of
a good person or bad person or a scientist by profession. So the profession category is still
the cataloging category. It's just like the names and heights and whatever, body mass.
Parent, friend, neighbor, these are categories that are defined by relations. And what I think is
needed, we have the notion of a cell type, and we have increasingly detailed characteristics of
cell types. And that's just like getting more and more data about individuals. But what we need is
to go from cell types, which is a useful and fundamental notion, to the notion of cell categories.
And the way they can be defined is just like the aliens who define social structure.
They need to be defined in terms of relations. So just like relation parent child provides deep
insight into social structure or relation, friends and enemies and so forth, those are provides
deep insights that can explain social structure. Similarly, if we define cell relations,
appropriate types of what would be the appropriate types of relations, that will give us insight
into social organization of cells. And so what I think we need to do is to,
rather than being obsessed with getting more and more granular data about,
you know, the identity characteristics, we need to define some categories based on relations.
And so we need to ask what are different cell types equivalent in some ways in terms of their
roles in tissue organization. So that would define their relation, right? So if you have a teacher
in one school, teacher in another school, they may teach different subjects, but they're defined by
the relation of teacher and student. And if we know that relation, then we can say, okay, there's a
category of teacher and there's category of student. So what are the appropriate
relevant categories for cells? And also, I would mention that not all relations are equally informative.
Right? So the category, some get some relations, some more fundamental than others. So the same
would apply to cells. And so we can define this, what would be called equals. So relations here,
I mean in more like in mathematical terms, like the way the relations are defined on sets. And they
can be symmetric, reflexive, transitive. And so it's in that kind of spirit of the way that
relations defines on sets, it's basically a way to partition set. So we have a set of cells and
what are different ways we can partition it, just like we can take social group and partition it
into parents, children, teachers, students and so forth. And that I think is what is missing and
what's limiting that we don't have that kind of a perspective. And this is something we're actually
working on, sort of from theory perspective, I'll just give a sense of what we're thinking now,
because we don't have a complete list of that yet. So this is the visual representation of what I
mean that we go from cell type paradigm, where we describe cell types, type A, B, C and D, to cell
relations paradigm, which will define cell categories. And here, for example, one relation will define
between these two cell types and other relation between these two cell types and so on. And
importantly, this relation, let's say relation A, may apply not just for this epithelial and
this mesenchymal cell, it may apply to other pairs of cells that belong to different types.
And that's what's critical, because that's where we hit the wall when we try to understand
general principle, and then we find, oh, macrophage is doing something here. So therefore,
macrophage is a cell type, it has this kind of a property. And then we don't find that example
somewhere else and say, oh, oops, it's not generalizable. It may not be generalizable for cell type,
but as a relation, it would be. So that's the general idea. And what are the types of relations?
So I will just use a few examples to illustrate it. And the first example also deals with the
notion of what is the general theme in tissue organization. And if we think about what's the
simplest setup for an animal, we would see that all animals have epithelial mesenchymal
units as the most fundamental, most ancient units of organization of tissues. There are
no animals that don't have epithelial mesenchymal units, even the simplest, like spongy and
plecozoa, that's basically, they pretty much don't have anything else, but that's what you
have to have an animal. And they always have a particular type of arrangement. Epithelial cells,
of course, form a polarized sheet. Mesenchymal cells are underneath and they're separated by
basically membrane. So that's a general structural setup. But what's interesting going beyond that
is that there is a particular type of relation between mesenchym and epithelium. And that relation
in one instance is based on a symmetry in information transfer. So mesenchymal cells,
for example, have positional information encoded by Hawke's genes. That translates into the choice
of appropriate morphogen signals that they produce, for example, and then epithelial cells have
several fade choices. And then mesenchymal cells through this morphogen signal dictate the fade
choice that would be appropriate for a given positional information. So we have this type of
instructional relation here. And this is seen as a common theme in development where mesenchymal
will affect the epithelium to shape it into different organs, different spatial structures
and so forth. And you can particularly well see to this development of different types of glands,
which you can see in the next slide even better. We can say now you go from this generic
organization of epithelium mesenchymal. Mesenchymal is not shown here for simplicity.
And then you can get all kinds of structures through a process of continuous transformation.
So if you think about it as geometric transformation, it's an example of
continuous transformation. There's nothing fundamentally new added here.
All that happens is continuous transformation. These are all topologically in bearing.
And that means that by just using that simple module and just adding the variables that affect
the degree of branching, you can generate all sorts of structures. And from a simple gut tube,
you can go to making various types of glands. And ultimately, you can make pancreas and liver
and lungs and all by process of continuous transformation. So that's how powerful that
effect of a relation between mesenchym and epithelium is. And of course, this goes back to
Mangolton-Spemian classical experiments of transplanting epidermis from one part of a bird
to another part of the bird and observing that the appendages formed by epidermis
are entirely defined by the underlying dermal structure, which is underlying mesenchym.
And from that came the notion that mesenchym has some information about the map of the body,
which we now is encoded by Hofstein's, and that the epidermis or epithelium has several
features, is in this case, forming different kinds of appendages, feathers of different
sorts of scales, and that's dictated by mesenchym. So now we take that. So here we're talking as
biologists, mesenchym at the dermis feathers, and we abstract from that and say, okay, we have one
type of cell, let's call it M cell, doesn't have to be mesenchym. We have another type of cell,
let's call it E cell, doesn't have to be epithelial. And we define this as categories based on the
relation between them. And the relation is as follows. M cell has some information,
in one instance, positional information. E cell has some fake choices. In one instance,
this would be feathers and things like that. And M cell dictates the fake choice of E cell.
And this we can generalize them and sell that these are definitions of these two categories of
cell that are based on the relation between them. And now we don't have to be attached to dermals,
feathers, scales and things like that. Now we can say there are two categories of cell.
And in addition to dermal and epidermal, as a relation between M and E, we can have other types
of biological scenarios. For example, M cell could be niche cell and E cell could be stem cell,
because they also have the same relation. Niche cell defining fake choices of stem cells,
cell renewal differentiation and so forth. Then we have a relation in immunology between
the grid cell and T cells. So the grid cell have some information about what kind of pathogen
they encounter. Naive T cells, which is T cells that haven't been yet encountered any signals,
they have fake choices. They can become different types of effector cells, memory cells,
so forth. What dictates that fake choice signals produced by dendritic cells? Because dendritic
cells have that information, in this case it's not positional information, but information they
receive from encountering pathogens. And more generally, we can say for any control circuit,
including homeostatic control circuit, sensors and effectors are two types of the circuit that
