control this compartment size? And that's where second paradigm is applicable. And that is that
every cell needs growth active to survive and to proliferate. And if you fix the amount of
growth factor to the appropriate level, the cells will expand if there is more growth factor than
the cells that it can support. But once they reach that level, further expansion will result
cells that now don't have enough growth factor and they will die. And so it's above that level.
It will go down. If it's below that level, they will expand. And that's how you can, and that
clearly that's how it works for hematopoietic cells. That's well known. You can change the amount
of retropoietin, for example, or GCSF while seven and you can control different hematopoietic
cell size numbers. But what was striking for us is that these two paradigms applied exactly to the
two cell types that we use in our study. And again, if we think from the cell category perspective,
we have one category of cell that is limited by one population size control paradigm.
And the other cell type that's controlled by another paradigm. And we asked whether this is
just purely a lucky coincidence or curious coincidence or if there is some deeper inside
here. And specifically, we asked whether, because fibroblast controlled by space availability,
so carrying capacity of the environment and microphase by growth factor availability, we asked
whether production of growth factor by fibroblast is a function of space availability it can detect.
And that's exactly what we found that we, when we looked at fibroblasts growing them at different
densities as to mimic space availability, we find there's a number of genes that control
in density dependent manner and amongst them growth factors like CSF1 and many others.
And so that indicated that CSF1, for example, would be expressed at higher level when cells are at
lower density. And as density increases, it will be at lower level. And this way you adjust the
numbers of fibroblasts dictated by space availability to the number of macrophages dictated by CSF1
availability that they produce as a function of space. I have a quick question. Sorry to interrupt
you, but so I know that the ECM plays a large role in growth factor availability. It acts like a
sink. It acts as like a release factor. Have you looked at all at, because in cell density, you
start to build up a certain amount of ECM as well as the number of cells. Have you looked at whether
or not if you co-template with the ECM that these cells would normally lay down,
if that would have the same effect as the cell density?
Yes, we have. The answer is a bit more kind of involved to you. It's a very important question
and we're really interested in understanding how ECM contributes to that. We know that it's a little
bit, it will take us a bit far from the main topic here, but what we know is that in the case of
macrophage and fibroblast interaction, the exchange of growth factors is cell contact dependent. Moreover,
fibroblasts that receive PDGF from macrophage will only receive PDGF from macrophage if it
provides that macrophage with CSF1. If we remove CSF1 from half of fibroblasts, mix them with the
well-typed ones, give them macrophages in the same system I described. Fibroblasts that don't
contribute growth factor do not receive growth factor. It operates in a cell. It's like a
gangster movies where you give the drug and the case with drug and case with money and you exchange
it like this and you don't just give and trust the other one. It's some kind of a maybe anti-cheater
strategy, but it is a direct exchange in these things. There are some other interesting, very
interesting scenarios, as you mentioned, because there is a form of CSF1 that is proteoglycan form,
but in this case it wasn't a factor. We tried to simplify to look at, with a minimal number of
variables, but it is a very important point. There is a mechanosensing by both fibroblasts
and macrophages also, a thing that I'm not going to discuss, where we find that macrophages use
very fundamentally different mechanosensing strategy compared to fibroblasts or bacterial cells.
Sorry, so just to finish this quickly, this part, what we find is that there is a
density sensitive enhancer in fibroblasts that controls expression CSF1.
And when we perform motif enrichment analysis, we found that that sites were enriched in density
sensitive genes and that is DNA binding transcription factor controlled by hippo pathway.
And basically we found that hippo pathway controls, through this distant enhancer,
controls expression of CSF1 and fibroblasts, but not in other cell types. These enhancers
are only active in fibroblasts, and that one indeed is recruited there, it's shown here by
chromatin IP, and that's what controls expression of CSF1, leading to this kind of model, where we
have homeostatic or density sensitive enhancer in CSF1 gene that is operative in fibroblasts,
and it controls homeostatic expression of CSF1, where it adjusts the number of macrophages to
number of fibroblasts. What the parameter for the ratio, this is exactly the kind of characteristics
that would be dependent on the tissue and properties of ECM and so on. That's where the
tuning of this parameter will change this ratio in a tissue specific way, because not every tissue
has exact same ratio and doesn't need to or should not have. And then there is this,
the inducible enhancer, and that could be dependent on the last expansion of macphage on
DMET during infection inflammation and so on. So that's the picture we see with
this type of relation of macrophage in fibroblasts establishing appropriate cell numbers,
and of course this is just one of the principles. There are many additional, as mentioned, ECM,
how they both sense ECM and whether signals is delivered through cell contact, through diffusion,
or through deposition on ECM. These will provide important variations on the theme,
which need to be individually explored. But what I want to finish here is the notion that there is
how this can be generalized, where we have a cell type, for example, fibroblast that senses
some aspect of tissue environment, for example, space. That space sensing is coupled, in this case,
through hippo pathway, coupled with control of growth factor for another cell type.
And because space availability cell numbers, these are characteristics of tissue homoesthetic
variables, here we just have this simple type of relation unrelated to function, because space
availability is not related to function of macrophage. But then we have other types of
relations where it is related to function. So, for example, sensing oxygen availability in other
environmental factor in tissues now sends through heat one pathway, and negatively regulates
expression of that gap, which is a growth factor for endothelial cell. Now, endothelial cell
functionally is related to oxygen availability. So, if oxygen level is low, if derepressed,
undiogenesis occurs, oxygen delivered, and oxygen level goes back to normal. And that type of relation
now can be expanded as I will elaborate in the next slide. But there are additional types,
so this raises the question of what are aspects of tissue environment that are sense, all the aspects
of tissue environment that are sense in a way that translates into control of specific growth
factor production. And how that, because each growth factor controls specific cell types,
how the cell type is related to this factor that is sensed, that controls production.
And that, I think, what defines the rules. It's one set of rules, it's not all rules,
but it's one set of rules that defines how growth factor expression is regulated.
So, here we have the homeostatic control, which is unrelated to this functional role of the cells.
It's just, it's calibrated. You always need enough macrophages. So, it's calibrated on the
pollution time scale. You always need this many, you know, this ratio, this percentage of macrophages.
But then, in addition, you can have expansion on demand. If there's infection need more macrophages,
so this growth factor will go up. If you have hypoxia, you will need more endothelial cells,
this growth factor will go up. If there is this X, some other environmental factor of tissue,
you need more of cell X, and you produce growth factor for cell X. And then, when we looked at
imposing different kind of perturbations on cell to mimic these deviations in tissue environment.
So, we used hypoxia, glucose deprivation, I mean acid deprivation, ER stress, osmotic stress,
and so forth, oxidative stress. And then, looked at the expression of genes and fibrolysis, and we
find a whole range of growth factors are regulated by these perturbations, which brings up the
possibility of exploring what the logic is in each individual case, because for each growth factor,
there is a corresponding cell type that's controlled by it. Often, for even perturbation,
you will need more than one cell type, of course, and that's why you will see that some of them induce
most of them induce more than one growth factor. So, sensing of the environment by one cell type
is linked to control population size of another cell type that is functionally related to whatever
that environmental perturbation reflects. And so, to generalize this, we can say it acts as
anything that determines the requirement for Y. Let's say there is a lot of, I don't know,
garbage, you need more genitors, right? And then you have a sensor that determines that there is
a lot of garbage. So, that would be the cell that determines that X is there, and therefore,
you need Y to take care of X. If it's hypoxia, you need endothelial smells. If it's infection,
you need neutrophil. If it's some kind of other type of perturbation, you need a particular
cell type. And then, the way that it operates is what I call functional demand. So, in this case,
what the underlying logic is that if X is detected, that means there is a demand for the function of
the cell Y that can take care of X. So, this is a sensing of functional demand
by cell X. So, it sends demand for function of cell Y, produces growth factor for cell Y,
cell Y expands, performs the function, functional demand is eliminated, and it goes back to steady
state. And in this fashion, cell X knows which growth factor to make. Remember the question of
identity, how do cells know which growth factor? It knows which growth factor, and it knows how
much to make. It depends on how much of functional demand there is. And it doesn't have to be only
growth factor. It could be any signal that can fulfill this circuit. It could be an expansion
of the cells, but it could also be a recruitment, or it could be activation of the function Y
that will remove that demand. And that now goes to a more general type of control circuits that
operate also in physiological settings and so forth. But for growth factor production, I think
that's what determines their functionality. Okay, so I will, instead of continuing in the same way,
in what I will do, I wanted to finish with something very different, not different, but
with notions related to what I started with, thinking about what I talked about most of my
talk is about examples of approaching these questions of tissue, social organization of tissues,
social lives of cells from the perspective of trying to look for underlying principles and rules.
And of course, as you all know, this is the general sort of strategy and general
paradigm and complex systems where you have multiple agents that interact with each other,
according to some rules, and that generates, generates, there is
emerging properties that are consequences of these interactions. And of course,
then the pictures like this that are emerging properties of interactions from agents,
patient or births, these are the observables. And the observables often fascinating, but
understanding them from the perspective that would be the first instinct to understand them,
to describe the size, the number of fish and what they're thinking, what they, you know,
what their glucose level is, measuring their RNA expression levels and proteomics and so forth.
These are going to be totally useless to understanding how you form this type of structures.
And instead, we need to understand what are the rules that generated them.
But again, what we're dealing with is these observables. And I made this very kind of a toy
example to illustrate something that I think for you would be very familiar intellectually,
that let's say this is the observable, this is what you see in microscope or through some other
type of experiment. And you try to understand how is this generated. This is some kind of a
structure you see it could be some arrangement of cells in the tissue or whatnot. And of course,
this would be very misleading if you tried to kind of use your immediate instinct to think that
there is something that generated curve structure. Right. Then if we know that actually, it's part
of this structure is just that you can see there are four repeated units and three of them are
black. And you cannot see them, or three of them are made up by cells that died in the as a part of
the developmental program. And you left only with this one on the left. And but in reality,
it's actually symmetrical structure. Not only it's curved by cement, but it's still curved. So
you're still thinking, well, how do you generate curve structure? And then we add mask, additional
layer. And now we look here. And now we see that these are actually
curve structure. Now we the white stripes become visible. And once they are visible, now we see,
oh, this is just slightly skewed hexagon. And we know exactly how to make a hexagon. And this is
just one line of code to say, you know, draw hexagon and instead of instead of 120 degrees,
you turn by 121 degrees. And now it's slightly skewed, and you iterate that and you get curve
structure. And if you remove some parts of it and end up with what's on the left, then there is no
way to tell how you made it. So the point being that the rule to generate this is very simple rule.
Just drawing hexagon and slightly skewing the angle. As a result, you have this spiral
lock structures, then you remove parts of them and you can have a curve. And if you look at the
curve, there's it's very hard to tell if not impossible to tell how it was generated. And
so what we deal with often is these observables, which which are several steps removed from the
rules that generated them. The rules themselves are extremely simple. But the observable, the curve
is emergent property here, usually, but how it generates them. And we can see that more clearly
with some cell automata types of examples, where you look at this final structure here,
and you try to understand how it was generated. It's hard to tell by looking at it, but that's
the observable. Now, if you look at it carefully, you start seeing, well, there is some symmetry here.
And if you look at symmetry, you apply coarse-graining and see that, well, this unit
actually repeated four times this one. In this unit, you also start seeing symmetry. It's also
repeated four times in this structure, then it's repeated four times in this structure. And that
is generated by these types of rules. So these are two rules. I mean, these are completely randomly
chosen just for illustration purposes to say that these are the rules that generate this.
The way they generate is through iteration and based on local information only and based on
only information available at the time of execution of the rules. You don't need to have
memory. You don't need to have global information. But the point is that if we know the rules,
of course, we can generate easily these structures. And we understand them completely when we know
the rules. But if you go the other way, which is the way we're usually forced to go because
what's observable is going from the other end, we have this structure. We try to understand the rule
and we can't because we don't know. There are no universal methods to do so. So we have to,
instead of characterizing more and more detail, what that is, we try to figure out what are the
original structures that generated them. And this is what basically
point that what we need to understand is what are the rules of interaction.
And of course, then there are many fascinating questions about specific mechanisms, pathways
and so forth. But if we simplify it down to the bare minimum, if you think about what cells can do,
cells can do five things. They can do nothing. So that's an identity operation. They can die,
they can copy, they can change identity, and they can change location. I'm sorry,
set identity twice, I meant it in different ways. This is cell identity and this is identity
operation, meaning that it's a, it's unity. It's doing nothing. So these are five things
that cells can do. There's nothing else. Everything is variation on these five things. Of course,
most variations comes from changing identity, which is cell state, cell type, and so forth.
But ultimately, this is, everything is a combination of these five actions. And this first action,
do nothing, is also an active action because you don't just stay as you are. You often, well,
a cell always needs a signal that tells it to stay as you are. Don't die, don't proliferate,
don't move. It's also an active process. So for each of these, there is a corresponding
types of signals that tell them do A, B, C, D, or E. And so now if you think of all the language
of cell communication, all the words that cells can hear and utter, all of them, we can say, can
fall into five categories, whether they tell cells to do A, B, C, D, or E. And that is sort
of the direction we are going in our thinking of defining the language based on, of course,
the interpretation of different signals also depends on the function of the state. It's not
just that a particular biochemical signal always means A or B. It also depends on cell state,
just like in any communication. And those are the very basic and general sort of description of
the types of rules we're seeking to find. So I'll stop here and take any questions. Thank you.
