New Jersey in general, maybe candid specifically is the population density is just
ridiculous. Yeah. I forget what the numbers are, but it's very dense out here.
It's very dense. Let's see if so, you know, when I hear, oh yeah, we double the size of our police
force that sounds like almost a bad thing, especially given today's climate, but it sounds
like it's actually worked out really well. Yeah. So like the problem isn't the number of police,
it's the but the funding sounds like and the unchecked for the unchecked everything, you know,
if I mean, imagine any other line of work where you fuck up, and you get to do a self
investigation into whether or not you fucked up, and no one else gets to look at your internal
investigation. Of course, if especially if you're tight with all your with all your co workers,
you're always going to turn out to a not fucked up. Yeah, right. I think that's the other big
weakness that comes out of having these really tight unions. Yeah, we talked about this on the
mind killer. But the main problem is qualified immunity is police. It's really hard to hold
them accountable, both because of their union contracts often include a lot of protections
that normal suspects don't get. And also the courts will give them what's called qualified immunity,
which means that for them to be held accountable for violating someone's civil rights,
there has to be generally some court case on point about that specific thing that they did.
So they know that it was actually a violation of your rights. And when they say specific,
they mean damage specific. I forget if it was whatever late show either John Oliver or,
or Seth Meyers or one of those. But the example they use is like, Oh, yeah, being shot in a in a
low creek is different than being shot in like a riverbed in the woods or something, even though
they're both in the woods. And it's like, Oh, yeah, no, those weren't the exact same geological
surrounding features. So they're different enough you have qualified immunity because the situation
has never happened. Yeah, I don't think it's not quite as extreme as people make it out to be.
But it's, it's hard to convict an officer. And I think that sounds like it's probably part of
the problem. And I'm not sure if this is a question that any of us are quick to solve or to answer.
But I, you know, like, I, one solution I heard that I liked would be, again, at face value without
understanding everything involved was, all right, well, let's, let's make every, whether it be
precinct or, or individual union or whatever it is, if you're going to stick around, or maybe every
city's police force, all carry like a packet of insurance for the officers. So that when you,
when you sue an off, when you sue for wrongful, whatever, you're suing that officer, you're not
suing the city. And then it comes out of their insurance premiums, just like it comes out of
doctor's malpractice. But the difference of making it a group policy rather than individual policy
is that then they would then other officers would be incentivized to kick bad officers out,
rather than protect them and shelter them like, you know, moving a diddling priest from one church
to the next. They would be like, no, no, you keep hitting people. And it's causing costing me more
money. And if it costs someone, you know, to put it cynically, like Professor Quirrell, it, you know,
I'm not so much annoyed that you keep pulling people out of their cars and hitting them. I'm
more annoyed that it's costing me 50 bucks a month that you keep doing that. So that, that sort of
motivation might actually get people to act. Yeah, it would be, I think it would probably be
helpful to require officers individually to carry their own insurance. You know, the way plumbers
do the way other trades people do. Yeah, I think that probably be a good idea. If a little politically
infeasible. Yeah, I mean, that's the thing is a lot of these are politically infeasible. This one
was different than just individual insurance. And it was a group policy. And so then that way,
like, if, you know, the three of us had insurance for us, you know, for our, for our little trio,
and we were out doing whatever. And, you know, I kept going out and hitting people, your guys's
premiums would go up too. And then that way you'd be really inclined to say, let's get Stephen the
fuck out of here, which at least, you know, so for whatever reason, some officer was totally fine
paying higher premiums because he liked hitting people enough to do it. Then that wouldn't solve
the problem for him, but it would solve the problem for a lot of other people. You know,
most people don't want to spend increased amounts on their premiums. I'm not sure how much it would
go up after a successful lawsuit, but probably some. And I think the thing that probably would
make that feasible is how heavily unionized the police departments are. Because normally, you
can't tell someone, you know, to work here, you have to have insurance. Although, like, like,
I'm a lawyer. When I worked for a law firm, I didn't have my own malpractice insurance. The law firm
had malpractice insurance that that I was covered under. Now that I'm solo, I have my own. I think
doctors, though, do tend to have their own malpractice insurance. Yeah, I was going to ask
about you mentioned tradespeople like plumbers. Like, I know that there's they do have like plumbers.
Yeah, well, tradespeople generally generally are not employees of anyone. So they have to
ensure themselves and usually do it through their unions. And the police could do something similar.
That would be an interesting experiment. I actually wonder if anywhere currently uses that model.
Because then you get and that would have the added incentive of getting the union incentivized to
reduce excessive force complaints. That's always my thing is that like, it, it'd be one thing,
I forget where I saw this analogy, but I just loved it, you know, it's the difference in
behavior you seen, or you see between like your average school district, a public school district
that discovers, you know, a pedophile assaulting children. And then, you know, the character,
the caricature of a parish that finds one of its priests assaulting children. And the, you know,
and not in every case, obviously, but in enough to hit the news every year, you know, the parish will
just move the the offending priests to a different location. And they get to keep their job, they
get to keep doing the thing and they get to keep assaulting kids. Whereas like in public school,
they keep their reputation as well. Like, right. They are incentivized to also hush it up.
Well, but the thing is, like, if a school discovers it, they say, Holy shit,
we can't believe this was happening. This guy, he's getting the fuck out of here. And they're in
there. And it's, you know, more of a public thing. And it's handled because they, there's less of a,
like, I don't know, us of them mentality, maybe, like, they also just don't want that shit in their
house. So they get these people out. And that, like, the use of force and the abuse of force in
cases of police violence seem to fall closer to like the church model than to the school model,
where, you know, somebody is doing some egregious shit. And, you know, like,
oh, geez, I'm blinking on your last name, Brianna Johnson, Brianna Taylor.
Brianna Taylor.
Thank you. I don't know why I was thanking Johnson. Her police report just came out
earlier this week. And it's like blank. She apparently had no injuries. There was no forced entry,
according to the official sheet, but according to the reports of like what we did when we got there.
And of course, the surviving victims report, none of it's true. And so, like, the just the
bullshit kind of involvement of like, oh, yeah, let's just hush this and try and, you know, again,
if this is our own internal investigation, all it takes is me to push this up to my senior officer
and be like, this look good. And they say that looks good. Cool. Investigation complete. But
because this case has a spotlight on it, that's not going to fly. Although, of course, I think her
murderers are still employed. So that's rather discouraging. Yeah, moving internal affairs
out of the police department would almost certainly be a good idea. It should be
a completely civilian thing. And I don't know how they've gotten away with having that as part of
the police department for this long. Yeah, it seems like fucking madness. I kind of want to
go back and highlight something Stephen was talking about, where you were saying like,
you don't understand why there's different procedures with churches and pedophilia versus
schools. And I was kind of, I think it has to do with authority. And possibly that's what's
going on with the police too. There's like just a weird kind of social interactions people have
with authority figures and what things are, what institutions are considered to be authority
figures versus not like a school can be folded around by the parents of children. Whereas like
churches, depending on the church, but like, they are pretty powerful.
Yeah, that's definitely not run by. There's not a church board, like there's a school board.
Yeah, that's a good point. They're tax exempt, like they're not, you know,
funded the same way public schools are, they're not held accountable that way.
So there's not as many parallels with police, but I don't know, I'm just kind of spitballing an idea here.
I think that, I mean, that definitely sounds like a part of it. I think it's just also the
internal attitude of like, we're going to protect our own no matter what, I just don't think that
exists among teachers. Like it, you know, I wouldn't want to work down the hall.
I can easily imagine it though. Like it seems like the kind of institution where that, like
there is like things like tenure and there's, there gets to be weirdness around
nepotism or there's a word for nepotism that blanking on, but like maybe it is just nepotism,
I don't know, where you promote or protect friends, family members, etc.
Chronism, yeah, I think that's a better word. Definitely that happens more so at colleges though.
Yeah, but I think there is a huge difference between just the culture of teachers and the
culture of police. Like my mom was a teacher and if she knew of another teacher that was
endangering their students, she definitely would have said something. There's no question.
Which is weird because you think cops would also have that kind of honor and duty and whatever
they, well they don't. Yeah, it just, it just turns out that they don't. That's, that's,
that's the disappointing and interesting factor. Like there was a period of a few years when I
was a kid that I wanted to be a police officer because I grew up watching superhero shows and
that was the closest thing we had. It was like, oh my god, this is, this is the protector class
of the citizen. I think this sounds great. I went through like the youth police academy
and all the cops there I met seemed chill. It was. Was this in Denver? No, this is in Fort Collins.
Or Colorado. It was in Colorado, but it was, it was not a major city. It was a, I mean,
they have a university population hundred and twenty thousand, but not a population of a million.
Like seriously, I'm like shockingly demilitarized compared to my experiences with police on the
East Coast. Thank goodness for that. And also just like cool. Like I've spoken to police officers
and they were just like, hello citizen. I was just, but you're not trying to like intimidate me.
And I mean, that's, that's the thing that, you know, I think many people have had encounters
with the police that the cop was chill as fuck. And, you know, I think there's, there's different
kinds of cops. And that, and I, this is where I was on the fence for a couple of years about
like, you know, no, this is a problem with a few bad eggs. And the other, the opposition argument
being, no, no, this is a, this is a systemic problem with all of them. And I was finally
sold over to the systemic problem with the argument that, look, if this wasn't a systemic issue,
then the, the bad cops would be forced out by the good cops, but that's just never what happens.
As it is, you know, the good cops actually ended up getting fired or getting being forced
into apologies. There was that woman last week, a police officer that stops another officer
from a chokehold and she got fired. The couple of officers who were kneeling with protesters
had to issue public apologies for, for, for kneeling, not for anything that, you know,
the police force did that the people were protesting against the, you know, like there's,
there's handful of cops that are like, I think the mentality is like, well, it pays $10 more
than the post office and I get a gun. Like this is, you know, this is just a chill job and it
costs benefits. And I think that there's, there's certainly that kind of cop. And then of course,
at least as early back as like 2005, the FBI was issuing warnings that like, oh yeah,
this is a concerted effort among white nationalists and neo-nazis to infiltrate the police force
that apparently no one listened to. So like the way that I was trying to phrase it to a
skeptic about this issue was because they were, they are now where I was a few years ago of saying
it's just a few bad cops. And I'm like, well, I think that as a whole, there's a, to put it mildly,
a bullying problem within the police force. And that isn't a norm that the rest of the force
shits down or, you know, tries to shoot down. And that, that's the real problem.
Bullying seems really accurate, actually, because you can think of the social dynamics of bullies
in schools. And I almost feel like the kinds of like mitigation tactics that you can employ.
I don't know. I'm thinking about schools right now. I'm thinking about the bullshit,
like anti-bullying stuff that schools tried when I was a kid that was just completely like,
you know, having assemblies where like, they get the whole school together and they have some,
like Wes is laughing. You remember this, some public speaker talk about like, how bad bullying
is that like they had, um, performing arts students get like, do a skit about bullying. And it was
just, it like made you want to go. Like the same thing with like the dare to resist drugs and
violence. Like I swear to God, I like left those assemblies wanting to do. Yeah. Nothing, nothing
made me want to do things more than authority figures telling me not to. Yeah. Especially
than telling you in a way that just didn't sell it at all. Yeah. It's like a person in a dog
suit skateboarding in and being like, Hey kids, you know, going home early and doing your homework
is cool. Don't do drugs. There's a free ruler. Always do what adults tell you. Um, oh, I guess
it's related back to transparent. Yeah. Oh no, no, you're good. It is funny. And it's my main thing
with the school assembly thing was that like just the level of dishonesty, you know, if they,
they come out and they'll say things like, Oh yes, all drugs are the same and they all
are the worst. And here's, you know, your brain on pot and it looks like a fried egg or whatever.
And it's like, then somebody tries pot because it's super available. And they're like, Oh,
it wasn't really as bad as the authority figures told me to be. I bet that cocaine and heroin
aren't really as bad as they told me to, that it would be either because they all said it was the
same. Um, when in fact there, there is a difference between some of the more intense drugs and some
of the less intense drugs, but because they're all sold to you from your, you know, your dare
program as being the same level of bad, then the second you falsify that, that broad claim,
your skeptical of the rest of it. Um, I don't want to ask us, if you know what happened, you said
there were some problem police officers that kind of were involved with the, the Camden case. Do you
know if anything happened to them? You said some people like reapplied it and didn't get their job.
Yeah, I don't know any specifics. Um, I just know that like, not everyone who was a Camden
cop became a Camden County cop. Uh, and I think some of that was probably done intentionally
to get rid of some problem people, but that's just really just speculation. Do you know,
without, uh, unless you actually have numbers, but do you know of incidences of like police
brutality and overuse of force went down after the size of the police force doubled and the
union was disbanded? I believe so. Um, not from any insider information, but I think I read that
recently. That's pretty cool. I mean, do you have, uh, I mean, there's probably not much that any
individual one of us can do, but any, any way that this could be sort of generalized for any
other city or any other group that wants to try and get this sort of thing through, like
my recommendation is to look at the Camden police use of force policy and design a similar one.
It's very, it's very, um, de-escalation heavy. Well, that sounds, uh, I mean,
God, it sounds so mind-bendingly obvious that I'm putting a hand to my face.
Also, no warrior training. Do not allow cops to be trained by these assholes who tell them
that they're soldiers on a hostile battlefield. Right. You need to be prepared to take a life.
And this and that. It's like, I, yeah, if you train cops to de-escalate, they de-escalate. If you
train cops to shoot people, they'll shoot people. So who'd have thought the training actually matters
in rights? Yeah, well, even I was going to say also just like, uh, norms and they have kind of a
apprenticeship sort of system, right? Like it's not the way they pair cops up with partners or the
way that they kind of, uh, escalate the career path. I guess what I'm trying to say is that there's
like a role model cops who are the older, superior ones that you look up to, right? And if there's
this norm of we are like people that protect the peace and de-escalate fights and whatnot, then
newer younger people joining the police force kind of get on board with that.
I mean, I don't know how, how that works, but I'm, I'm certain that the new hires respond to the
existing culture. So if the existing culture is, you know, has this warrior mentality, then
they're going to adopt it. If it has a, um, you know, a less aggressive mentality, then they'll
adopt that too. Yeah. Yeah. Replacing all of the previous culture seems like a good way to
maybe remove bad norms and insert some better ones. Yeah. Well, you got, you have, I mean,
