you have to start with the, the written policies. Um, if you're, that makes sense. Yeah. If your
written policy is like, if you feel threatened, shoot, then you can't, there's no way to change
the, the more subtle things. Do you have any more to like talk about your personal role in those
cases? Or I guess, are you able to talk? Um, well, so one of the things, yeah. So one of the things
that I think people don't realize, um, when it comes to police complaints of police brutality
is that, um, it's not just the cops who lie. Um, people are completely full of shit
all the time about complaints of police brutality. Um, and just from like the small
handful of cases I was involved in, there was so many obvious lies told. Um,
How much of your job is just that? Oh, not much. I really only had like a, uh,
well, I, a lot of it was for Kandyn, but a small amount was for police brutality complaints. I
think I only had two or three in your career as a lawyer. Oh, even how much of it is kind of just
everybody's lying right now and you're just sitting there kind of with your head in your hands. Like
well, so I do mostly family law now, which is less lying and more just everyone's sort of exaggerating
and, uh, focusing on their emotional pain over the actual facts of what happened.
Man, I don't know if I'd want to do police brutality cases or family law cases if I was a
lawyer, just because they both sound like they'd be equally shitty from different directions.
Well, family's way better. I remember reading, well, that's good. And I, I imagined that it,
I mean, I was being somewhat tongue in cheek, but I remember reading a case, uh, someone on Reddit
was like a family or a divorce attorney, which is different than family law, but it was adjacent.
Not different for family law. Oh, okay. Good. Um, I didn't know if family law was more broad or
something than just, but I mean, people divorce attorneys almost always do. Oh, you know, that's
sort of family law stuff, ancillary to divorce. Okay. Yeah. It was just like they were talking
about how they had this couple and they spent $16,000 in lawyer fees arguing about who gets
ownership of this turkey baster. And it's like, and both of the lawyers even offered to buy
their clients new turkey basters, you know, for $15 bucks or whatever this thing cost.
And they're like, no, I want this one. And like that, that's sort of the question is,
what were they doing with that turkey baster?
One can hope a basting turkeys, but one, one is now forced to think of all the alternative
uses of it. So thank you. I mean, if you were to pay $16,000 to have it, that's, uh,
feel like you're doing more than basting turkeys with it. It could be. Or you're just being crazy
petty. Um, you can buy sex toys for really nice ones or like a few hundred bucks. Just saying.
Did they make them like that? Oh, I don't know about turkey baster ones, but I'm just thinking of
like fun factory, like high quality German. Oh, sure. I'm sure there's a Tiffany brand
turkey baster out there that's sort of the diamonds and shit. So I want to look up. No,
do I want to look up German? I think I do. All right. More peculiarity.
We'll hold off and that can be our, our extracurricular stuff for the episode. I think that
we're getting tied in, uh, you know, this has been sort of a smaller case of the broader things
going on in the last couple of weeks in the U S, um, it kind of to, to paint the scene. I was,
I was telling a family member that we had a listener from my other podcast that we want more
one right in from Australia. And it opened with like this, this nice sentiment of like,
Hey, hope you guys are doing well. You know, uh, we're, uh, just saw that you guys passed Americans.
Are you okay? And it was, it was nicely put. It was just like, you know, I, I, I saw that you
guys just passed a hundred thousand deaths and from COVID. And now we're seeing all the stuff
in the news from all the police brutality. Uh, certainly hope you and Brian are staying safe.
And, um, luckily the solution to both of those is like, yeah, we both stay home all the time. But,
it was like the, the image from the outside is like, Oh yeah, shits, it's terrible here.
And it, and the image from the insiders that shits pretty terrible here. I've got a co-worker
who's going to a lot of protests in Detroit and, uh, getting, you know, pepper sprayed and getting
her ass whooped a couple of times a week, which I don't quite, uh, like, I don't know on the,
I don't know if I haven't said this on a podcast yet, but I've been thinking, I've had this in a
couple of private conversations. Like I'm not doing anything like actively in the protests,
even though I support them. And part of it is because like, I feel like if I, like one good
shoved at the ground would have me limping for two years and like, I don't want to, you know,
risk my physical safety, um, that could be interpreted as, as a, uh, Oh, well, Stephen
doesn't really care. That's why he's not acting on it. Um, and it's, it's not really that it's
just that I guess I am, uh, I don't think unreasonably selfishly putting my own safety
above, uh, you know, the, my, my solidarity with my fellow man and my fellow, my fellow human. And,
uh, yeah, there's many ways to support protests too. We're currently like on air, I guess.
Uh, and the kind of people that I don't know, I, uh, I also like really admire and like for a
while aspired to be the kind of person that would show up to a protest and willingly be
beat up or maced or thrown in jail to support a cause. And maybe I will do that someday,
but it's just like, you have to be a special kind of person to be able to do that shit. And like,
I feel like it's the same kind of person that would like throw themselves in front of a bus
to save a child or like, I don't even know. Like those people are awesome. And also they're like,
not the norm. And there's good reason for that because if everybody did those kinds of things,
people would just be dying left and right all the time. We have a self-protection and survival
instinct for a reason as a species. Uh, I don't know. I guess that gets into deeper questions
about ethics and morality that are beyond the scope of this podcast. Or are they? Well, they can be.
Or this episode of the podcast. That works. Yeah. I think my only other real thought on it was,
you know, because Wes is on, I have to think something somewhat mind-killery and my, uh,
my, my hot take, if you can call it that was, I, there's, there's a, at least a handful of people,
one I'm thinking of in particular, whom, you know, I hold in some esteem and respect and
they were talking about how, you know, as a white man, I could never understand what it's like to
be. And of course this part's true. I can never understand what it's like to be a black person,
you know, constantly on guard from the police. But they'd said something to the effect of like,
police brutality isn't a problem I face as a white guy. And I, my only hot take on that is like,
I think you're might be in for a rude awakening. Like, yes, the police brutality is disproportionately
targeted at black people, but it's not exclusively targeted towards black people. And if you think
that you're immune from being attacked by the police, uh, just because you're white, I think you,
you might be in for a terribly rude awakening. Um, it's this, this isn't just a problem that,
uh, only some, only the minority of people face. This is a problem that everybody faces.
And again, yes, it's targeted towards disproportionately towards minorities,
but it's, it's not like, I guess you're not safe just because you're white. And if, if so,
like if someone's saying, well, it's not my problem, well, it kind of is. And this person wasn't
saying it wasn't their problem. They, they had the solidarity attitude, which I agree with, which is
none of this is everyone's problem, but it's not one that I'm dealing with. And it's like, well,
you, I guess some, my hot take on a nutshell is like, this is sort of a problem that you could
deal with if you bumped into the wrong cop. Um, you know, what was it? Just a few couple of years,
I had all blends together and I forget the guy's name, but you know,
you just Google all the high profile people who got killed by the police in the last couple of
years. And there was that guy, um, oh no, I'm blanking on the details and thinking of another one.
Uh, anyway, there was, there was, there was one of those many black guys that got killed by cops.
Actually, no, that these are both white people can remember all of them. Okay. Yeah. So like,
but this guy had the name, had a name and it hit national news, but it wasn't as big of an incident.
And I'll see if I can dig up the name later, maybe, but another case I'm thinking of, and this
just is more about training. Um, it was somebody who like, it was, it was somebody with mental, uh,
like a developmental disorder and they went and saw, uh, shoot, it was one of those space
movies that came out like the last five years. Um, I forget what it was. Uh, anyway, so they,
they enjoyed the movie. They thought of the movie theater and they just stayed in their seat
because they wanted to watch it again. And, uh, three cops show up and they choked the kid out
and he dies in the movie theater. And his last words were like, mom, it hurts. And it's devastating.
And, uh, this was a, a white person with, with developmental disorder or developmental problems.
And so like, so yes, they, they also fit into a minority group where the police aren't able,
apparently to talk to somebody who can't, uh, perfectly reason back with them, but they also
can. Um, uh, you know, it, excuse me. No, they can try. No, no. Well, they can, I have a chip on
my shoulder about this because when I worked at the library in New Jersey, um, before I moved here,
libraries are one of the places that homeless people and people with developmental disabilities
and physical disabilities and elderly people with dementia. Like, uh, it's a place where you can go
for free that has bathrooms and wifi and air conditioning slash heating. You know,
we see this in Denver a lot too, where a lot of homeless people hang out by the library. Uh,
and I had so many incidences of people that I knew from the library and I was just like,
I don't know, fucking John, John, who comes into the library every day to like download anime and
just the sweetest person and just, I don't know, 30 something year old. I'm blending together a
few identities and changing names, but like, like maybe 30 something year old dude who just comes
into the library chats with people, watches anime and has autism and sometimes just like
has sensory processing things and freaks out. And by freaks out, I mean, like,
yells loudly, waves arms, does weird things. So like, run into John, for example, in like
shop right or whatever. And if people don't know John, then like immediately they'll call the cops
and they're like, Oh man, there's a, there's 30 something bit scary male in here waving their
arms around yelling and the cops will show up. They're like ready to go. And it's just like,
you have to like, I've actually confronted the cops and been like, no, I know this person,
this is John from the library. And he's just very upset because he touched ice. And if you talk to
him for two seconds, he will tell you, I don't like the ice, it feels bad. That's why I'm upset.
And then he'll like calm down once he feels understood and like safe. You know? Yeah. Sorry
that I'm kind of going on our rant about this. It's just like a issue.
No, no, no. I totally understand. And I think I misspoke when I said that they can talk, you
know, the people can reason back. I think I hadn't quite finished my thought on it was like
that even if they say, you know, the police are often, oh, no, you're good. I wasn't making my
point very succinctly that like, there's, there's too many cases where, and the person I'm thinking
of, it might jog someone's memory if they could remember the name. Like I seem to remember,
he was like on the ground with guns pointed at him from multiple officers as being
shouted in inconsistent commands, you know, get on your knees, put your hands behind your head or
something. And like you shot a twister commands. What was that? Like the instructions for the game
twister. Yeah, basically, except for trying to do two things that you physically can't do. So
it just went, you know, kind of back and forth on that. So I don't know. It's,
it's wild. And I can't find I was digging around a little bit for the source of the thing I was
thinking of, and it's not coming to mind. So anyway, I don't have much else to add other than
kind of raising the subject of what's currently going on in our
cultures, climate regarding that issue. I don't know, I guess to ping the Paul out to you guys,
there's nothing you wanted to talk about. But I figured we couldn't talk about an isolated
incident of like police stuff and not talk about the broader stuff. So
yeah, no, I'm good. My
as another plug, you know, listen to the mind killer, if you want to hear my full thoughts on
the the broader issue. Do you want to hear about that? Good, good culture war slash political slash
economics. Yeah, that sounds good to me. Alright, yeah, do check out the mind. I don't know if
anyone's unaware of the mind killer that they are, you guys shouldn't be and go check it out.
The first two episodes are on this feed. And the rest you can find by going to your favorite
podcast app and typing into mind killer. So let's see what else we want to talk about then guys.
I guess we were talking a bit about the different kind of ways to approach
community building and cultures are among communities that we've developed ourselves.
Yeah. So like, so yeah, the nice topic, you mean? Yeah, yeah, we're wrapped up with this one.
Let's let's all be nice to people all the time. Yeah, no, I had some some feedback from from the
last episode, which, you know, I saying saying everyone be nice is certainly a good starting
point. But I think it is not it is, I don't I don't like telling everyone to be nice,
because I don't think you can, if everyone's nice, I don't think it creates the kind of community
that I like. And I, I don't think it creates the kind of community that you guys want really.
I think if you, in order to have a community that's having vibrant discussions and
specific, especially having a community where people get called on their bullshit,
you can't you can't just have everyone be nice all the time. So I agree with you there. I think
we should we should get away with any ambiguity with the word nice. I mean, so like I we mentioned
before my mug of don't be a dick is what it says on it. So presumably, when you say not, you know,
not everyone be nice all the time, you don't mean everyone should be dicks all the time,
which is the other end of this. Everyone should not be doing away with the word.
Exactly. So I think doing away with the word nice. Like, yeah, let's let's try and try and
hash out what if any I suspect there's very little daylight between our actual positions here.
Because I think like, because any ash is not here. Well, I think even if even if he was,
I, I would be surprised if if he would push back too much on saying no, no, we should,
I guess. So when you say, when you hear, what was that? Sorry, I'm being a troll. I said he would
be too nice to do that. When you hear, we should all be nice all the time. What are you hearing
without using the word nice? So did you guys read the unit of caring back when she was posting
regularly on her tumblr? I know you know, should I have so I believe I was gonna say I've read
some of it. And I know that it was like any ashes favorite. Yeah, Kelsey Piper wrote a tumblr called
the unit of caring still does every once in a while. But when she used to post a big theme
of her tumblr was that when you have conflicts about social norms,
it's it's best to look at it in a competing needs framework, which is that like this,
different people have different needs from a social space. And that those needs are often
in tension with each other. And that's when you ask like, what should the social norms here be?
You should be asking yourself like, okay, who needs what here, and which norms serve those needs?
And which yeah, what norms serve what needs and okay, and like the sense of a small community
like ours having kind of the founder effects ability to create norms, as opposed to having them kind
of right, I guess, right? Well, I think, you know, you're talking about the discord server,
the norms there have evolved pretty naturally. And one of the things that made me nervous about
last episode was it sounded like there may be some effort to consciously change what the norms are.
I think we agreed not to do that, mostly because we didn't think that it was possible.
And I think also I was the one suggesting that and that again, I was mostly kind of just
throwing ideas out there for, I like to, I like to, I don't know, pick an extreme position,
see what how people respond to it, kind of, and then pull back from it until, uh,
Gotcha. Well, when I so when I hear people try angulate. So when I hear people talk about being
nice, what I'm picturing is being the perfect internet citizen. And the perfect internet
citizen is always civil, always polite, never takes anything personally, never insults anyone
else, and never says anything that another person would be offended by. So that's a lot of
questions. And that last one's sorry, Jason, what did you say? The talking about the,
is this a TV tropes thing? Or was this from the atheist movement? There was this
discussion about rationality being like, there's this caricature of a Spock figure,
who just is all logic. No, I'm not really talking about that. I'm talking more about
a very empathic person who is always like, when I say never says anything that some would offend
somebody else, I feel like the straw Vulcan says those kinds of things all the time.
With the perfect internet, the perfect internet citizen says is, you know,
always very polite and very warm and empathetic. And never, never angry, never upset,
gets emotional, you know, about injustice, but never about anything that someone said to them.
