Alright, welcome back to the Evasion of Conspiracy. I am Steven Zuber, and we are minus one in
yesterday because of house renovations. So, with us today is, let's start with Jace, because
we're all remote and pointing is hard. Hi, I'm Jace Dickie, and we have with us also...
Hi, it's Wes Fenza. We did like dramatic hand gestures, but no one can see him.
Oh, the joys of remote recording. Imagine us doing hand gestures a lot.
Yes, just picture them in your mind. We have to do like an old-fashioned radio recording,
describing what people are doing. Steven, what are we talking about today?
Good question. So today, I think we're going to do a couple of things. I think that it would be...
We've definitely got the bandwidth to talk a bit about the protests and all of the
awesome and not-so-awesome stuff that hopefully will come out of this.
I wanted to do... Mainly, we wanted Wes on because, you know, A, you're fucking awesome, and B,
I think you had some valuable feedback for the last episode that we did. So,
I wanted to talk a bit about that and some of the work you did representing Camden
whenever we get a chance to shoehorn that in. So...
Yeah, I'm especially interested in hearing about that because I only heard about that second hand.
All right. Well, let's do it. Okay.
All right. Well, I guess I... Let's see how we want to get started here.
Do we want to just jump into... Let's start off easy, since I think we're all still kind of
waking up. Let's do... By easy, I guess we'll make you do the work. Since you're in the East
Time Zone, you woke up earlier. That's true. It's 12.30 here.
That's right. So, let's talk about the work you did representing Camden and what...
I mean, I guess bird's-eye view and then we'll deep dive with whatever we want to ask about.
Sure. So, I was employed by a law firm that was like overflow for the city of Camden. So,
they had their own... On payroll attorney and he had an office. But when they got extra work that
their office couldn't handle or something was going to trial and they didn't want to do it,
they would give the cases to our firm. So, I worked on a number of cases, including...
There were a couple police-excessive force ones. And one of the most interesting ones I worked on
was a... There's been a lot in the news recently about how Camden a few years ago disbanded its
police force and reconstituted it under the county instead of the city. And I did some work
making sure that didn't get overturned in the courts. There was a group of supposedly concerned
citizens and actuality police union stooges trying to put forth an initiative petition
to let the voters vote on whether to do this. And it was going to be a whole thing, but they managed
to... I mean, it's a lot of like kind of boring legal stuff, but essentially the case went to
the state supreme court and we got it, so they weren't allowed to place that on the ballot for
a lot of actually very good reasons. So, having the police under the representation of the county
other than the city, what impact would that really have? So, it's funny because I see all the press
around this and it's like, oh, Camden, you know, they can serve as a model for other jurisdictions
who want to improve their policing. And really, the point of it at the time that I was aware of,
and I wasn't involved in any of the political discussions or anything, but my impression
of this was it was basically just union busting. The police union in Camden had too much power
and there was no way to implement things like, you know, they wanted more officers. They wanted
to do something about police absenteeism. You know, at the time it was done, police,
about 25% of police were just absent from their jabs every day. But mostly it was about money. The
police, through their pay structure, especially their pensions, it was just costing the city so
much. And they were basically able to hire about twice as many officers after this for almost the
same amount of money. So, that's rather dramatic. I can't imagine that kind of turnaround or like
that turnaround in expenses being just overlooked as, I don't know, anything other than flagrant issues
of funds. Like, hey, look, we now have twice the officers for the same amount of money. I can't
imagine any other business where that wouldn't be looked upon and be like, what the fuck were we
doing before? Well, it wasn't, I wouldn't call it misuse of funds, but it was definitely police
union contracts that were just way too favorable to the officers. And so, like the part that jumped
out at me, absenteeism and police are salaried, right? Yes. Or no, it's it. Okay, yes. So,
they just they're just not up to work. Well, they get overtime. Yeah. That's true on any salary job
if you put if it's the right setup. But yeah, my salary job previously. Yeah, plenty of salary
jobs don't get overtime. But the police did. Yeah. And I guess when I say any, I mean that it can
happen in any other industry. It just often doesn't. Yeah. So that's wild. Yeah, I don't know. It's
almost the opposite problem of like a police being overly policy. They're just not showing up.
Yeah. Well, yeah. And it's it was the exact opposite of defunding the police
that people are talking about. Because instead what they did was they hired twice as many officers.
And so they really expanded the police force. And it just this was just a cost saving
way of doing that. Was there like an exciting incident that kicked this off?
No, I think I don't know what it was. It was never really made public. There was no big incident.
I think it was just police union negotiations with the city just were not going well. And they were
like, Well, then the if the police union won't agree, then we have to just get rid of the police
department. I mean, as an amateur and not lawyer, that makes sense to me. I want to keep asking a
couple more questions specifically related to this, but then I want to dive into that broader
subject a bit more. Like you said the people opposing the initiative aside from the police
were just kind of like Stooges. Yeah, not Stooges, but you know. No, I said Stooges. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, no, they were they were they were union affiliated people who were doing this because
the police union had asked them to almost certainly. And what what sort of what what kind of case did
they make? Like what was their what was their? What did they bring to the table in their favor?
Well, so Camden under the the laws of how it's incorporated has something called an initiative
petition, which allows citizens to place a question on the ballot. And you see this a lot
in California state politics, which is probably where you're familiar, most familiar with it.
There's a lot. There's always propositions over there. In every major election, there's usually
one that gets a lot of publicity. But basically, they wanted just to put this question on the ballot,
like should the city of Camden be allowed to disband their police department? And normally,
you can do that. But the way they worded it was so confusing and weird. And it was they always word
them like, I hate those profits. Yeah, I'm always like, yes or no, I don't know which answer is yes
or no. Yeah, and and they were it was really silly, because the way we won in the state Supreme Court
was by the time it got there, this had already happened. And the wording of their petition was
like, should this be allowed to happen? And I'm like, how are you gonna how are people gonna
understand what this is? If the thing that they're voting on already happened, you'd have to and they
could have just started over with a different position and said, okay, well, once that once it
happened, we're gonna we're gonna put a different petition, or for real this time, or do a or do
a referendum, which is where the city passes a law. And then they can basically recall that law.
They say the city passed this law, we don't like it, we're going to put on the next ballot to say
we're overturning that law and putting it back to where it was. And they could have done either of
those routes, but for some reason shows not to. And I guess for the deliberate obfuscation, I
in would have been 2018, I think, maybe maybe 2016 here, all the years have blended together.
There was a thing in Colorado where, hey, this, you know, it was like, hey, if if you're if the
value of your property goes down, you get to see the state and get that proper you get that get the
value of that property back. And I'm like, hey, that sounds great, I just bought a home, you know,
if they put a landfill next door, and my place gets less valuable, that sounds super awesome.
And only to come to learn after election day, or after voting day, whatever, that this was put
there by big oil, because there was also a fracking bill on the on the ballot saying it
have to be some hundreds of meters away from a populated area or something to frack. And what
they wanted was like, hey, if we lose the ability to frack in people's backyard to be able to sue
the state, and get the get the fracking money back, even without having to frack there. And
that seemed pretty fracking stupid to me, that I only discovered that after the fact. And
this other proposition put there is like, red herring or
I think it was theirs that if they couldn't frack in your backyard, they want to be able to sue the
state and get that money anyway. But it was put to the put the voters was put to the idiot voters
like me as, hey, if your property value goes down, not just, you know, the people who bought,
you know, lands to frack on, but if your value goes down, then you get the benefit of being able to
to sue them or rather to sue the state and get some of your property value back.
And so having just acquired my first property, I thought that sounded like it made sense.
And like I said, in the after aftermath, it came out that it was less to do with,
you know, of course, and it less to do with the average person than it did with the average,
or you know, with the giant corporation funding the bills. So
see, I was hoping that was going in a better way, where they wanted
everyone was no one was letting them frack in their backyard. So they wanted to pass a bill
where people who allowed that fracking would get paid for, you know, the value of their
their their property going down. That'd be nice. Yeah. I don't know that might have actually worked
out in that favor, as it was the ability to sue the state for loss of value to your property
due to a state decision to allow weird shit to happen, like putting a dump or a fracking site
in your yard. That didn't end up passing. But the one that said they can frack in your backyard
did pass. So, or rather, I think, I think of what it was, it wasn't say can they frack in your yard,
it was, is the distance going to be increased from, I think it like I said, it was a hundred
mandatory distance they have to keep. Yeah, I think it was like 100 meters to 250 meters or
something. All right, well, and it was hilarious because I was talking with people like family
members who are like, Oh, no, this, you know, everyone in my neighborhood, they have, you know,
jobs in that industry, and they need that to keep their, you know, to keep their places. And if they
all lose their houses, then my property value goes down anyway. And I'm like, that's the dumbest
thing I've ever heard just because there's a big field next to your daughter's will be
elementary school in a couple years. And you're going to really enjoy driving past 70 semi trucks
coming in and out of there every day, while you're dropping her off to and from school,
everything else aside, like it's going to be super annoying for you. But people I think are,
are weirdly short sighted. I'm also not very well informed on anything. So I sound like an
idiot on basically every subject when it comes to voting and, and policy. But let's see if I
know other stuff about the Camden business, I'm kind of working as a surrogate for Inyash, who is
busy working on his new house. So what were you gonna say, Jace? I was gonna actually ask Wes
real quick if you could kind of give us or give the listeners some background on Camden, New Jersey.
I have a certain perspective on Camden having been from originally the shore. I'm curious since I
think you forget if you were born in the area you're in now. I grew up about an hour and a
half away from here in southeastern Pennsylvania. Camden for a long time was the murder capital
of the United States. Consistently, you know. So we have about this impression of Camden.
Yeah, it was lots of murders. And I actually live right now about, you know, a mile from Camden.
And in, ever since they did this, the murder rates gone way down, the violent crime rates
gone way down. So it's just, you know, bad, not the absolute worst. I mean, it sounds better if you,
you know, if you're odds of getting killed in your way to work are lower, that sounds like a
big boon. But of course, that's, you know, since your odds of being killed in any case are probably
very small, even in the murder capital of the US, I imagine the other deficits probably weigh in
still. Yeah. And the way murders tend to happen is they're concentrated by neighborhood. So there's
just, you know, certain places you don't go to after dark. Right. Yeah. I like, there's also this
amazing aquarium, which is the main reason I've ever been to Camden. The Camden aquariums are very
nice. They're well, they're waterfront areas pretty nice. I remember going there with my grandmother.
A few years back when I was still living in New Jersey, and I was using, I don't know, I was
using a garden instead of my Google Maps, and it was taking me some back road and I was like, oh,
no. Oh, yeah. That's bad. You can, you can like feel it. There's just a different vibe when you've
gone off like the touristy. Yeah. Yeah, I once biked over the, the bridge to Philly that's in
there. And it had me bike through Camden. And it was, it was a little, it was a little scary.
Yeah. Although the impression I get is that it tends to be more like, I don't know if gang
violence is correct, but kind of just like interpersonal people killing people they know
generally. Yeah, I don't know. Not just randomly killing tourists, although
maybe, I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, you know, people, I would, my guess is the,
the improvements in the violent crime rate and everything are because there's twice as many
cops now. I wonder also if maybe, you know, oh my God, Stephen's head just disappeared.
Whoops. Let's ignore that. Okay.
For context, we're on Skype and Skype has this feature where you can have like a
AR background inserted behind you. Stephen's doing it. It's been pretty good so far, but there was
this point early on in the podcast where I was just trying to keep a straight face,
but you apparently have a mug that says don't be a dick. Oh yeah. You like lifted it to drink it at
one point, but I just saw the words don't be a dick kind of appear from the clouds behind you.
Okay. Yep. All right. Well, we'll push past all the fun stuff that people can't see.
That mug will be relevant for our conversation later.
I got very distracted by your headlessness. Let me bring it back. I was trying to ask,
Wes, do you have any insight on whether the number of cops increasing had to do with
the drop in the crime rates or did the quality of the policing actually go up once they
disbanded the union? Like what was the hiring process like? I have very little insight into that.
My understanding is that both happened. Because when they made the new police
force, I believe it was the same chief of police, but everyone had to reapply for their jobs and
not everyone got them. Okay. Good. And that was the whole process. The Camden County Metro police,
which is the new police force, apparently also has one of the best use of force policies in
the country. They worked with the New Jersey ACLU to put it together. Yeah. And that actually can be
a model for other police departments. And I've been looking into, I actually just got a hold
of the use of force policy for my town's local police. Because I know some local activists
here and we're going to look and see if there's improvements to be made. It's actually quite
good. I think it has almost everything on the eight can't wait campaigns demands already.
Except for the one about not far, except for the one about firing warning shots. But I actually
hear that that's not a very good idea. I mean, I warning shots of actual bullets or those pepper
spray ones from what I could tell they're saying before you shoot someone with a gun, you'd fire
a warning shot. And I mean, in principle, that sounds great. If you're shooting if they're standing
nicely in an empty field. I, you know, I think that the this gets us closer to the, you know,
nationwide police stuff. But like there's nowhere to safely shoot a warning shot anymore. Even if
you shoot directly overhead, you're going to hit like an airplane. I mean, or bullets going to
fall down somewhere. Yeah, I think, you know, an arcing bullet can hit can land pretty hard. I
think straight up they tend to fall out about, you know, their terminal velocity, which isn't
really hard enough to hurt people. But like, you know, if someone was causing shit in my town
home community or something, and they fired a warning shot over the person's head, they would
just hit another person's window. And so if they, in the rare, rare circumstance where someone had
to be put down by the police in my parking lot, I'd rather them fire every bullet into the crazy
person that is barely to go up and at them or something. Again, there isn't the number of
people I think that are actually shot don't. I mean, this is so trivial, it's not be worth
saying, but the number of people who are who like, yes, I agree with that use of force,
the number of people who fall in that category are so small that I think the the odds of that
ever happening near me are vanishingly small. But the the idea of like, oh no, we got a fire
warning shot over their head or something. That would just that would hit somebody else's house.
Yeah, and our our policy actually specifically forbids warning shots.
Probably for good reason. Yeah. I mean, another thing about
