rationalist life hacks or whatever, but we could say that there's individual topics that I wanted
to do whole episodes on like career hacks, for example. Yeah, that sounds valuable. And the
kind of thing that we won't be able to shove in the last 10 minutes here. There was a thing,
and I think this is what you know, I was just talking about because he sent us some notes
since he couldn't make it today. One of the, it was a comment on one of the discord norms that
tone matters because someone's tone is a signal of how willing they are to engage
or to respond to arguments. And so this was something that I wasn't very helpful in.
I think it might have been in the We Want More channel where I, and I forget who it was,
I'm sorry, but they were, they were bracketing their, their like statements in brackets of like
sincere question, confusion, etc. And I responded with like question, why are you putting those
things there? And they're like, well, because it indicates like where I'm coming from. And I'm
like, I could tell it was a question from the question mark in the sentence. And yet I do think
there's value in doing that. But I wonder, like, I think that would only be necessary to an audience
that is completely tone deaf. And it's not just a place that I appreciate that sort of thing. And
also I don't expect people to norm it. Well, I think for me, like, if, if somebody isn't coming
to the tape, coming to the conversation with a mentality of like, I'm willing to engage this
or something, like no one's going to use the bracket sacred cow and then say something,
or like, I will yell at you if you disagree with me and then make their statement.
So like, I feel like they're almost in our small community.
Just gonna bracket my comment totally unreasonable. But I'm curious.
No, the idea, the idea of them was they were supposed to be like the L core from Mass Effect,
who don't have any way who kind of speak in a monotone. So they don't have any way of expressing
emotion. So they're supposed to be emotional. They were supposed to be like, happy or like confused.
Or, um, you know, you could put something like good nature joke or something like that. So I think
they have value there. They're definitely not something you could norm because it makes the
conversation way too burdensome. You have to type like twice as much. I said we should use emojis
for that. And everyone was like, no, but emojis can be misinterpreted. I'm like, yeah, but they're
way easier. I also use my emoji shortcuts heavily. I would be willing to stake without counting that
more than two thirds of my comments on discord have an emoji attached to them.
There was a this late star code expose friendship is counter signaling,
where some people will just like make fun of each other and tease each other
as a way of expressing affection. And emojis are very helpful with that. You know, you call
someone an asshole, but put a heart at the end of it. You can tell with what they're saying.
And I did that with somebody. I didn't use the word asshole, but they had said,
like, I think I'm being uncharitable to this piece of media. And I said, I pulled out the quote
and I said, being uncharitable to this piece of media, isn't that on brand for you? Oh, here's
something that we can talk about that's mind killer that I just noticed. Oh, wait, no, yours
is different. Sorry. You've got the no snitch tattoo. Correct. And from methods of rationality.
I thought this was related because I saw a I'm not on Twitter. Thank God. Well, really thank me
for the foresight of knowing that that's not good for me. Or Facebook, by the way, I saw a Facebook
post because I have an account, but I haven't opened it since we closed, you know, the lesser
on meetups because that was the only reason I got on for five minutes a month was to set up the
monthly meetup. But someone showed me a thread on a friend's account that went fucking hog wild
with people like this. This is exactly what I don't want it to turn into. They posted a the
response from like JK Rowling about their perceived transphobia. And let's be fair,
probably partially legitimate claims of, you know, look, I feel like you're not being
fully woke on this JK Rowling, what the hell. And so she apparently wrote some apology that I
didn't read in all of its essence, because I don't really care. And the comments in there,
those went like, I think within five or six minutes, five or six posts went straight to Nazis,
and, you know, all that bullshit. The so anyway, the reason I brought that up with your snitch
tattoo was I saw somewhere on Reddit, apparently some tattoo artists are willing to like over
whatever you call it, over tattoo Harry Potter tattoos for free. Because now people now people
don't like the Harry Potter tattoos because, you know, just get a big red X that's right.
Just don't get a Nazi tattoo with a big red X there. That was a reference to the person that
got stabbed. Yeah, in Washington. Yeah, wasn't he campaigning? Oh, a Nazi. Yeah, I had like a no
Nazis tattoo. And they're like, yeah, I think like his, what was it like his very short sleeves
shirt partially covered or they just miss on there were just like, no, they stabbed him, right?
Yeah. And that's why I'm a big fan of not being violent towards people you disagree with, because
sometimes people you disagree with, aren't people people, sometimes people you are violent towards
aren't people you actually disagree with. And more importantly, you know, and more generally,
and this is the kind of thing that, again, this community fosters, like, and the kind of question
that if I were to raise in other places would just get you screamed at and called a Nazi,
like, it's unlikely that I'm right about everything. Right. And so there's it's unlikely
that I'm wrong about my stance on Nazis or something. But to not be willing to entertain
disagreement, I think is just like a failure mode of a community that is at all trying to
quote be less wrong. You know, if it's a discord about movies or something, then whatever,
look, you know, leave leave your politics out of it. Let's talk about how weird colors from the
sky was that Nick Cage movie. Oh, was that before we started recording? I watched a movie last night
called colors from the sky. It came out in 2019 with Nicholas Cage. It's based on HP Lovecraft
story. And I don't think I've seen a Lovecraft movie. The closest I've come to Lovecraft is playing
Bloodborne. And this movie is fucking weird. I it wasn't wholly unpleasant because it was so unique.
Um, but it was a strange movie. And so if anyone wants a weird hour and 50 minutes,
check this movie out. I love surreal shit. That sounds like well, first of all, Nick Cage is in
it. That was that was made a tractor. I heard the category was like sci fi horror, and it had Nick
Cage in it and like sold. I don't need to know anything else. Um, yeah, I don't know if we have
much else to go on about. Do you guys have anything else to know? I think I'm good wanted to discuss.
Um, yes, but like not on topic. And uh, yeah, we should wrap up sequence posts. I think maybe
we should just save for next time. Yeah. And all that. Well, that sounds good. And, uh,
any ash sorry for probably butchering the conversation that you wanted to make here
by trying to summarize your points for you. So we will no doubt touch on, you know, I think
having conversation, you know, community related conversation, you know, throughout
everything sounds like super relevant because this is a small community that we try to foster and
keep things running awesomely. So, um, yeah, I, I see us coming back to these points anyways. So
there'll be room for you to make your case better. Um, I don't know if we have time,
we might have a minute. I'm curious, was there anything else I said, Wes, that you drew
contention with? Because I'd be happy to clear up anything. Um, actually one of the things that
both of you had said, um, no, Steven was that you didn't like the idea that people should have
thicker skin. Uh, and I feel like I do like that idea. Like I, and I think what we were
talking about earlier is, um, recognizing that like some people get offended by things easily
and not every community is for them. So it's, it's not like, you know, you should go get thicker
skin, but it's like your skin must be, you know, this thick to have fun in this community. You
know, and I, and I support the idea of there being separate spaces for different skin thickness
and not every space needs to, um, accommodate the most fragile person. I think I, I think I
agree there. I think the, the distinction that I had was like, and I can't remember exactly
what the context was that brought this up. Um, it was, I think somebody saying like,
grow a thicker skin. No, I think what Enya said was it was when, when one of the people had left
the server, he was like, well, you know, I think in some sense I'm sad they left, but in the other
sense, like maybe, you know, they, they need to have a thicker skin to have a good time here,
something like that. I think it's a skin thickness, you know, again, maybe tabooing that word to make
it easier. What I meant was more like, this shouldn't be the kind of place where like you
should expect to get, uh, you know, that you need, you need a jumping in sort of ceremony, like being
jumped into a gang. Um, I wanted this to be fun, but, but if you are the kind of person who can't
come in and have a, uh, an opinion challenged, then yeah, frankly, this isn't the space for you.
Like you need to be, it needs to be possible that you're wrong and need to be willing to
entertain that idea seriously. And if you, if you find that too emotionally painful,
this just isn't the space for you. I'm on board with that. Um, I, maybe I'm walking back on
everything I said too easily. Maybe I just didn't phrase it clearly enough the first time, but what
was your take, Jace? Yeah, I like, let's see, talking about Tumblr earlier and the community norm
of like a straight W spaces, having these essays that you have to sign in blood and so forth.
I swear to God. No, I know you're talking. Maybe not the blood, but yeah, I think people
have probably seen these. Um, I saw like a counter movement that was around for a bit until like,
uh, basically, I think Yahoo bought Tumblr and then all other things went to shit and they started
just banning people for no reason. Before that happened though, um, there was kind of a counter
movement where people were explicitly stating in their blog, uh, this is not a safe space. I do
not tag triggers. This is my blog. Uh, and I'm going to run it the way I see fit and you have the
choice to leave or to block me if I fendu. Uh, and then they were still getting people that were
like, excuse me, uh, this is a fat phobic comment and I take this, like, I take offense to this or,
you know, uh, this seems really ableist. You can't say stupid because that, you know, denigrates
people with low IQ, uh, and the person will have to just kind of point to the top of their blog
and be like, sorry, I'm not your safe space. There are other places that are your safe space
that you can go hang out in. Yeah, there are other blogs that are perfectly willing to like
be told what triggers they need to tag by their viewers. This is not one of those places. I just
don't have the emotional bandwidth to do this. I'm not being paid to run this blog, et cetera, et
cetera. Um, and I think, uh, it's my very long winded way of saying, I think I agree. Uh, after
kind of, I mean, I think, like I said, picked a, picked a position, like stuck my stick in the
sand and then like people respond to it. You know, this isn't your safe space. We're not
giving trigger warnings. Um, we're not necessarily using all the current, uh, you know, social justice
approved wording for everything and being like, oh, we're also, we're going to express bigotry on
this in this piece, you know? So like, if somebody, yeah, yeah, I like the don't be a dick as a
general rule. Yeah. And like, you know, that, that's the, the, I think actually my wife got
the mug from somewhere and it's just perfect because don't be a dick is a phrase I like a lot.
Um, I saw Phil plate give his talk at one of the, uh, James Randy amazing meetings in like
2011 or 12. I remember that the title of the talk was don't be a dick. And it was surprisingly
controversial for some reason. And, uh, I think three speech. Well, I think, I think skeptics
also enjoy the fight of like, no, you're being a fucking idiot. And, uh, what, what they don't
realize. And that's the point he was making was like, that's not how you win hearts and minds.
Um, so like, if you, if you want this message to spread, you don't do it by getting in someone's
face and calling them an idiot. Um, and anyone who wants to confine that.
Don't be a dick phrase makes me nervous for something you guys mentioned in the last episode,
which is that if, if the norm is don't be a dick, then dick, the word dick becomes defined as
whatever somebody doesn't like. Um, in the same way that, that, you know, we can be violent towards
Nazis ended up with everyone being Nazis. I'm saying don't be a dick just winds up with everyone
being a dick that you don't like. Um, yeah, but I think that when I said a general rule, maybe
what I meant was more of like the guidelines, uh, where like being a dick is not going to be
a banable offense. It's just somebody posts a picture of meat in response to the person saying
like, Hey, I don't like meat. Instead of just saying like, no, we don't do that here. They're
just spamming pictures of bacon or whatever. Then like, I think that the community could kind of
be like, Hey, you're being kind of a dick. Yeah, I would say like, don't intentionally cause people
distress. Yeah, that's what I mean by it, I guess. Yeah. And that sounds close. I mean, the other
cool thing about, you know, worrying about sliding to the bottom of a slippery slope is like, I feel
like our community is capable of not doing that. And so, you know, when I say don't be a dick, it
means like, if someone says something that is wrong, you know, like, I, if, if David was on and I
said something wrong, exactly, or, you know, at least very likely to be wrong, you know, because
David's knowledgeable about a lot of things that I have no fucking clue in. So I'll come in and say
something and he'd be like, actually, that's 100% wrong. And here's why that's not being a dick. If
you said, see, but that distinction, I think is not conveyed when you just say, don't be a dick,
because in a lot of places saying, well, that's 100% wrong, right, that is being a dick. Yeah.
And luckily, I think that we have the, the shared norm of like, we all want to be less wrong
trademark. That like, so if someone says that to me, I don't, I'm not offended. I'm not even
actually the least bit like, put on my, you know, my back step, I'm like, Oh, really? Like,
Wow, sounds like you have adequately figured this out. And, and I think I'm trying to find
wanting to make transgender jokes about this, because my God, really, one of the effects of
testosterone is your skin thickens. And the opposite on estrogen. Yeah, there's a gender
or sexually dimorphic skin thickness thing. And like, I think that's totally irrelevant to the
conversation, but I keep kind of giggling about it in the back of my head. So now, now, now,
now I'm probably gonna look this up and it's hilarious. The metaphor of skin thickness is
actually a super sexist thing. Like that's where that came from. So I'm sure
I think we're ruined forever. I think for me, it's, I'm trying to put myself in the place
in my memory where I was when I talked about skin thickness, I can't remember what it was. I
think having explained what we're both talking about, I think we agree, which is kind of what
exactly where I expect this conversation to end up. I think that that's going to be the case with,
you know, any, not any, with probably 85% of disagreements on the discord about this sort of
thing. I think there'll be more agreement than disagreement when any confusions are resolved.
And I think that's where this kind of wound up. So I think often, generally, in life,
when people disagree about something, it turns out to be the case that they're just misunderstanding
each other. Or like, not like maybe 100%, but I think people can find common ground like way more
often than they seem to think they can about even very like politically charged or emotionally
charged topics. And it depends on the norm too. I don't mean to cut you off, but like that the,
you wouldn't have the room to even find where the disagreement lies in that dystopian server you
were talking about, right? Because by then I used to be like social justice aligned. And
I was going to actually use an abortion example, but I have an even more relevant one. David,
other David and I, just the other day, were just randomly talking about shit. And we got on the
topic of pickup artists. And me of five years ago, or however long ago, wouldn't have even like,
I would have been like, no, pickup artists are bad and evil, and they should all die,
probably nothing that extreme. But like, I was able to now have a conversation of, yeah, there's
a lot of like, bad shit in the pickup community and pretty toxic. And yet also there's areas of
the pickup community that are kind of just like, sneakily teaching people social skills and
self confidence. And like, actually, a lot of people seem to come out of the pickup community
like, better than they started it, depending on where they are, like who they talk to,
what lessons they take, what their goals are, not a position that I would have been willing
to even consider five or six or however many years ago. Well, and that's the cool thing about
different, you know, societal and community norms is that you're more primed now than you were before
to entertain an argument. I see what you did there. You're willing to pick up, right? Yeah.
But I, oh man, I'll pretend that was on purpose. I am happy that I managed to drag on the conversation
for like 20 minutes, but I am mindful that everyone has schedules. So thanks for letting me
keep this going for a little bit longer. Yeah, I need to eat food. I've not eaten any food yet.
It's too late in the day for that to be the case. So let's resolve that. And we can call it a day
here. Yeah, we will save the, sorry, what was I saying? The, I'm trying to open up my notes tab
here. There it is. We'll save the sequences for next episode. But we never don't have time to
thank our patron. So thank you for this week. Our patron that we are giving a special shout out
