And so the perfect internet citizen, I think, is something we all, most of us, know how to do.
Like, we can play that role. And we sort of have to in most spaces online. There are, you know,
I'm a member of tons of Facebook groups, a number of other Discord servers, and just a whole bunch
of other places around the internet that I feel very strong pressure to be the perfect internet
citizen and never say anything too controversial, never take anything personally, never, never get,
you know, never fight with anybody, never react when I feel offended, that sort of thing. And one
of the things I like about the Bayesian conspiracy Discord is it's a place where I don't feel like
I have to do that. It's a place where I feel like I can be an actual person and express my,
my actual thoughts and my actual feelings without having to be constantly glancing over my shoulder
for the, you know, the internet police or what, what did Enish called them, the local scold
to come and be like, hey, you're not being nice enough. Like, and I think it's really hard to
talk about these things in the abstract. Because my, you know, so I'm, I'm autistic. So like,
a lot of how I interact with people is I have like the rules for like, this is how
social interaction goes best. And a lot of those do it on manual. Yeah. And a lot of those are
very fact specific. So like, but like the last fight I was in on the Discord was because someone
called me a liar. And I was offended. And I, I reacted angrily. And, you know, the perfect
internet citizen never would have done that the perfect internet citizen of them like, ah,
I understand what you are saying here. Let me calmly explain to you my thought process here.
And that would have certainly would have gone better. That's the thing about being the perfect
internet citizen. It's actually good to do. But it is also means you can't be a person and you
can't have emotions and you can't express those emotions. Yeah. And that's like exhausting. I
actually am impressed by your ability. I know we've had a lot of like off air conversations
about introversion versus extroversion. But I just don't exist on the internet. Mostly I lurk in
communities or like, even in our Discord, I've mentioned a few times, I lurk in our Discord.
I'm watching all y'all. I rarely interact. Mostly because of the thing you're talking about.
I just don't want to have to worry about my internet reputation. I'm stressed out enough
about my real life reputation, like my in person social interactions. And it's hard. Yeah, as a
fellow autistic person, I mean, I am also doing all this on manual and I have my lists of rules
that I'm checking internally, externally sometimes. It's too much to really keep track of. And if it's
if I don't have that ability to have that, the sort of radical honesty thing that I prefer where
it's, I make it sound like it's like an ethical choice of mine or something. But honestly, like,
honestly, I do radical honesty because I can't do the other thing. I suck at lying and keeping
secrets. I just I know this. Since I was a little kid, it would be like, like little Jace,
did you take the $5 from my purse? And I'd be like, haha, no. Oh my God, punish me. I'm bad.
Like, it's just I can't. I can't lie. I feel horrible. And it's just it will be in the back
of my mind, like the little voice screaming at you, like, no, things are wrong. You must fix this.
Yeah. And then like, keeping secrets as well, which is just kind of tell people, you know,
when I meet them, I'm like, hey, like, if you ever have something that you want me to keep a
secret from someone, probably just like, don't tell it to me because I will just flirt it out
without realizing it until it's too late. And sorry, I just don't check those things good.
Well, so, and I think that that part's like, I, I'm trying to just trying to order my thoughts
here. Your your list of all the things of a perfect internet citizen sounds like it sounds
like it'd be great if everyone was doing that all the time. If you're the only person doing that,
and you're in a room of 30 other people, you're going to be the, you know, you're going to be
pushed around, you're going to be the only one having to bottle up your feelings because everyone
else is freely expressing themselves. That all sounds fucking terrible. And I think it's worth
I'm totally fine going on the record is saying that I'm on a number of discord servers. And
among my favorites is the Bayesian conspiracy one, I have seen how arguments can
their self contained people and as rare to, you know, being called a liar is about the
closest I've seen to like a personal attack. And that that is well, and that is a personal
attack, but that's like the the only variety of it. I've been on other ones where even just this
week I've seen people, you know, within, I don't know, nine or 10 messages run straight to Godwin's
law and start looking Hitler and Nazis. And it's, I don't think I've ever seen an an unapped analogy
involving Nazis come up on the Bayesian conspiracy discord. And in the event that it ever comes up,
which I can't even think of an example, I think that it was a good example of, you know, an actually
decent parallel or something. I so to be clear, I think that our our community has
by our community, I mean, the Bayesian conspiracy discord, not the rationalist community as a whole.
I think it has tons of strengths. And I what I what I really like about it is that it is it is
self policing and that it doesn't need moderation. You know, the closest I've ever had to come to
do moderation is saying, you know, someone posted a spoiler in the non spoiler, we want more channel.
And I'd be like, can you move that to the spoiler one? And like, that's the level of moderation
that, you know, I want to do. But then again, you gave everyone the ability to delete those. So it
really is self policing. Exactly. And no, and no one's abused that. If someone, if some asshole
wanted to, they could run through and delete the whole thing. And they haven't yet. So and
maybe the benefit of the benefit of me doing it that well, it David would be right if we were all
playing with the same, you know, norms and approaches, but society at large isn't. Society
at large need to get David on. Well, yeah, we will at some point, but I think society at large
would have the issue of, you know, somebody would have no trouble just running in and wrecking
shit because everyone's got a key, right? The I, I'm like, I think that getting being able to
respond emotionally to something that charges you emotionally is super valuable. And is what I
would do. I've responded emotionally. And there are times where I haven't, you know, most of the
the negative feedback that comes my way or negative stuff that comes my way is people shitting on
one or one or more of my podcasts. And like, I think maybe once have I said like, you know what,
go make your own fun. Oh, no, this actually wasn't even on the discord. It was on, it was on comment
on the website, actually. And they just sat there and like, ripped apart the thing. And I'm like,
you know what, like, if you hate it so much, why are you listening to this? And why don't you go
make your own podcast? It sounds like a great idea. I'll listen to that one. As far as if I'm
making shit, constructive feedback, welcome on constructive feedback, go fuck yourself. And
that that's so I mean, if I wouldn't want to coordinate in a society, or in a community,
like our discord, where I'm feeling like I can't say, you know, hey, why don't you,
with all politeness, go fuck off. I don't think I have to pull that out all that often,
because for the most part, everyone's super chill. I think I missed, like, one of the
inciting incidences, incidents that was the kind of crux of one of Inash's arguments on the last
episode. It was where somebody came on and then left because they were in a disagreement with
we don't even have formal mod roles, but we have a couple of majorly active community members like
yourself. And so as such, you've been given discord powers because you're doing more for
that community than I am, or than the conspirators in general. So like, you know, if the community
is a garden, you're spending more time in it than we are, and it's like, well, I mean, hell,
if you're here and you have the time and energy to do it, by all means, gonna be great if you
could help out. And so I missed the whole thing where this went down, but apparently someone came
in, and they were in an argument with somebody who was in one of these pseudo mod roles. And
like, I guess felt like they should be like they got pushed out kind of quickly, and that kind of
bums me out. I don't want that to be the situation where somebody comes in and gets into a disagreement,
and it turns surprisingly hostile surprisingly quickly. And again, having not been there,
I can't say how hostile it was. Yeah, I was going to say that's not my impression of how it went
down. Okay, good. So you were there, then you can correct any all of my mistakes. I wasn't there,
I was licking. But I missed it completely. So so my take was that this person came in expressing
a lot of ideas. I think David was kind of hostile to those ideas and made that clear. And he,
um, the other the other party had switched to a different channel and was like,
so David just level with me. Do you not want me in this server? And he was like, honestly,
I don't I don't like you very much. And so he left. And I'm like, and I get I get really
worried when that gets brought up as a thing we want to avoid because I mean, it there was the
thing where he thought David was like an owner, or like ran the server or something. So correcting
that misconception is good. And now we have a welcome page that should make make it clear
what people's roles are. But the fact that like he left because David was honest with him about
his feelings, like I am 100% on David's side in that one and would not want any kind of unwritten
or written rules or anything that would discourage people from answering questions like that,
honestly. I am in the University of Bays, which is the split off server that they ended up making.
It's a good server. It's just, I mean, this is a different person who made the University of Bays,
right? Or was that around that? Okay, maybe I'm, uh, yeah, because, because what was that like
Zorander is still active in both communities. But yeah, actually, maybe I'm misunderstanding
how that went down because I was under the impression that somebody was trying to add.
Yeah, that was Zorander wanted to add a mental health channel and talked about it for like two
weeks. And we wouldn't add one because we're like, well, just start talking about mental health. And
if lots of people talk about mental health, we'll add a channel for it. And he was like, no, add it
now. Because because that will that people won't feel comfortable talking about mental health.
There's not a specific channel for it. And we're like, oh, that's look, we don't. And also he was
like kind of new. And I personally was uncomfortable people coming in and being like, we need this
channel. Let's make this channel. Cause I'm like, oh, then we'll just get, we have a lot of channels
and we'll just get endless channel clutter. A lot of channels. Yeah. I think it worked out for the
best that University of Bays is something because it is different. I mean, I don't know, really,
if there's a unifying topic of basic literacy as a whole, but like kind of the subjects that we
talk about on the podcast and then the stuff that you're guys separate podcasts have brought up as
well, mind killers, methods of rationality. So there's like, kind of already built in topics and
listener group that has a certain set of interests. And this was kind of it turned out to be like,
here's a place for, I guess, yeah, we can talk about mental health and self health and growth.
And that's cool too. I just like it kind of being its own thing because that's like for audiences.
Totally. And I, on that one, so that was different than the other incident where somebody came on
and was got the impression that they were being told, like, that I don't want you here by somebody
that they thought ran the place. Oh, it was an authority figure. Yeah. So this one was different.
Like I totally get the, the, um, the inclination to not have someone jump in as a new person and
said, Hey, you know what we need is these new channels and trying to, you know, get that channel
bloat going. I'm sympathetic to that. I was, I was surprised at the pushback. Um, and I, you know,
I didn't just jump in and do stuff just because I figured I'd let it sort itself out. And it did.
And frankly, if I had just made a mental health channel, Zarendra may not have broken off and
done the University of Bays, which is super awesome. They have like, it seems like daily
recorded lectures on various subjects and it's like, we can link to it. It's actually a really
cool place. It's just, it's a different like subject matter, but for people that are interested in
and I am in self-help growth, learning anything. Yeah. It's more of a coordinated effort to do
a couple of things than it is just like a place to hang out. And I think I'm fine with the basic
experience of this court being just a place to hang out. Um, so like I said, the only part that
is sympathetic to was the fact that a new person wanted to jump on and make new and ask for new
channels. That said, I was surprised at the pushback because, you know, mental health is,
is a, is a, uh, a topic that is often discussed in the rationalist community and that we have a lot
of insight and, uh, you know, practiced, um, techniques for and the idea of like,
So if you look at the Slate Star codex, uh, user polls, there's a lot of overlap between specific
mental illnesses in the rationalist community. Exactly. So we're disproportionately represented
in the, uh, the mental health, uh, category. And so the idea that like people didn't want that,
I found surprising. And I'm sympathetic to the argument of like, well, I don't want to start
spewing stuff and clogging up the general chat because then things get lost in general too.
Yeah. Um, you know, part of general wants to talk about last night's episode of whatever,
another part is trying to talk about, uh, depression or something. Then it gets, then it
gets kind of clogged up and confused in there and having a space for that, I think made a lot of
sense. But you know, that seems like, I think that one mostly went down fine. It was, it was
mainly, I was just surprised to sort of like the, the vitriol maybe of like the intense pushback
of like, I don't want this. I thought that was, I think that was mostly in response to the way
it was being requested. Uh, not what it was, but more of the like insistence that they were talking
about it. Yeah. I only caught the tail end of it. So I, I wasn't there for the whole thing.
So I, I can't really comment to the rest of the whole incident. Yeah.
I just, I just lurk and skim. I don't know what the hell's going on. I mean, like,
actually, um, Steven, when you were saying I didn't want to just jump in and make that channel
because someone requested it, like, I feel like because I am quote unquote an authority figure
or like as like one of the co-hosts of the podcast, I almost don't want to touch the
discord. Like I'm, I'm worried about abusing power or being seen as like, I don't know,
I get very uncomfortable when, if anyone ever kind of like tries to treat me as an authority figure.
Uh, I don't like attention. I don't like people looking at me as like a role model because no.
You've got to just relish in your power. I think I had a, and you know, I like it being a,
like I said, a fairly mod free zone or moderation free zone. Like I had, I had one,
this is probably six months ago. It was also just like a bad week for me. And then there's some,
something stupid kicked it off. And I had like one half hour of like, I think this is right around
when I, maybe I added it right after this, the old man yells at clouds emoji. And there were like,
there were like four meme channels. There were like five other ones. And there were like two
not safe for work meme channels. And I was like, I know we have minors on this channel on this
discord. Like this is fucking stupid. What the hell is this? It's like, I left for like two days
and I come back and everything's all, you know, I'm like, I could just, you know, using the garden
analogy. I just came in after like a weekend off and like, I see a bunch of shit. And like,
without even talking to people, I'd start ripping things up. And I didn't, I didn't rampage too
hard. I think I deleted like three channels and then added one of them back or something.
Right. Yeah. Old man yells at clouds. Yeah. Get off my lawn. But this isn't my lawn. This is
everybody's and I, you know, I think to bring it back more to the, like the, the broad, like how
does one conduct oneself? I think we do it just about perfectly, like, or just about ideally
for my taste, which is all that really matters because it's the community that, you know, is for
this show. I don't have a lot of patience. And luckily my patience has never tested on this in
this discord of like, Oh my God, I just feel unsafe whenever this subject comes up or like,
I hate, you know, if somebody I'm trying to think of whatever it is, we can insert whatever harsh
topic that that's something that I really like about our community is that like, there are,
there are many, I'm prepared to say basically all corners of the internet or most whatever,
where like, Oh no, that stuff, that conversation's off the table. We don't talk about that.
Or an example I've seen a lot in real life that I don't think is that controversial though.
Oh, that might be. Well, so sometimes a vegan will come on and say,
nobody posts pictures of meat. I'm deeply offended by the idea of other people eating meat. I don't
want to see meat. Don't talk about meat. And then depending on what your community is, how like,
top down or like self policing strictness, it is either people will enforce that and be like,
Oh my God, you posted a thing about meat, you got to delete it immediately because
Kevin is bed as a vegetarian and we'll get very offended or Kevin like, you can go to
And Steven, this relates to something that you said that actually wanted to disagree with.
You know, you said that an entire community of people behaving like the perfect internet
citizen sounded good. I think that sounds bad. I think that sounds very, I think that sounds boring.
Because no one will be talking about anything interesting because anything interesting could
offend somebody. And I think it relates to what, I think it relates to what Jason was saying where
