today is Luke Hanks, who is a financial supporter of the podcast, which we really appreciate.
What a good name. Luke Hanks. Sounds like Tom Hanks. So I know that Luke Hanks is a good dude.
Yeah, it does. And Luke Skywalker. It's just a good name. And a good person. Exactly. So thanks for
your support. You can find us on Patreon. Should you have the bandwidth to support us? And if you
don't, that is totally fine, especially during the financial hardships that the world is going
through. This is, this should be one of the first things you cut. And not to feel bad about cutting
it. So, but if you have spare cash around and you want to throw us a buck or two, we're super on
board with that. And yeah, and there's all the other things you can do. Yep. Reviews on iTunes
are free. I just cut you off and you were about to say. Oh, no, no, you're good. Because yeah,
reviews on iTunes are free and take only a second. All that stuff, everyone knows how to
podcast and what to do to spread things. And come join the Discord. I want to talk to you guys
zero off with it. I think we can wrap this up here. Oh, yeah, there's been someone asked once,
I think we've got someone to write in. How do I join the Discord? There's a link to the Discord
in every episode's show notes. So if you want to know what we're talking about and what makes
our community super awesome, and that sounded sarcastic, but it wasn't. If I had emojis,
you would have seen that. Then yeah, do come by and see what all the hubbub is about. And
the link for that is in the show notes for the episode description. West, don't forget,
also co-hosts the MindKillers. I think that was it. Come listen to MindKiller. We talk about
politics and get mindkilled. It's surprisingly tame for what I was hoping for with that name,
but maybe I'm just predisposed to not be too freaked out by it. So yeah,
I'm curious what your thoughts would be. The one I made is like...
Let's talk about that. I just have all these images of the people that they put on bathroom
stalls, the generic person, but I'm starting to tank. No worries, we'll call it here.
And thanks for listening. I have a mental image. Yeah, we love you guys. Stay healthy.
Try to not get maced, unless you're trying to for political reasons.
And then if you do get maced for political reasons on purpose, try not to cough in anybody
or get coughed on. Yes. Bye.
All right, everyone. Have fun. We'll see you next fortnight. Thanks again.
Okay, bye-bye.
