that was the last somebody comes in and says, Hey guys, I am triggered by meat or discussions of
meter or pictures of meat. Then the perfect internet citizen is going to say, Oh, well,
of course, we won't talk about that. You know, and I don't think that's always the correct answer.
But people have triggers about everything. Yeah. So yeah. And I think I was part of that polyamory
group that you were talking about last episode, entire essay. Oh, I left that one. I was never
active on it. It was like, I can't, I can't do this. Yeah. Oh, I never posted anything. I mean,
I lurk anyway. But the thing was, yeah, like there's, I was just about to talk about like
certain tumblers that have this, but this community had that too. There's like an entire thesis
statement that you have to read and like sign your name and blood in before you're allowed to
join. And then they have to evaluate you. And like, yeah, you're not allowed to use the word
poly because Polynesians had it first and that's racist appropriation. And you're not allowed to
post pictures without describing the picture or emojis, because some people might not have
the ability to see images on their phone, or they might be hearing impaired.
Yeah, just like last time I wrote this up, I found myself getting angry just hearing about that.
And I think I concede your point 100% was that with your with your model of the perfect internet
citizen, that does sound terrible. I think and never tries or and never offends anybody or makes
never not to ever offend anybody was the last and on the list of like what makes perfect internet
citizen. And that's the only one I would draw contention with I think that you can have totally
healthy and adult disagreements that are 100% capable of being discussed by adults who are
capable of having conversations that might be challenging. And so I would, if we chop that
off the list of the perfect internet citizen, I think I'd be totally on board with it. I'm
picturing just more like, you know, like a disagreement. I think I brought this up with
on last one, Sam Harris and Dan Dennett disagreeing on free will, like their disagreements barely got
personal. It got surprisingly, you know, rude from Dennett, which was surprising. But like,
that's the kind of just that's the kind of discourse that I like where, you know, oh,
you think that well, I think that's wrong. And here's why. And of course, that's offensive to the
person hearing it if they hear that you disagree. So you chop off the offensive bit. I think the
rest of the perfect internet citizen sounds close to good. You know, like the the meat example,
I can't imagine. I mean, I don't know if I would do this personally, I would like to think that
if someone jumped into general chat on the Bayesian conspiracy discord, and said, Oh, by the way,
I'm new, could we stop talking about meat here? Because it triggers me, I don't like it. I kind
of would like to think that we would have a handful of people respond with pictures of their
friend of the last meal they made that, you know, was meat heavy, or with with pictures of
see, I turkey legs, I don't think people would do that. And don't get wrong, I think, I think that
the vegan is on the right side of the argument. I happen to not be a vegan, because I'm lazy and
a hypocrite. But I think that I think that's the ethical way to go. But to say I can't handle this,
can you guys all accommodate me? You know, I don't have anybody came in and said that David would
would just comment and say no. And then the conversation would move on. And that would just
kind of be the end of it. I would like him to I'd like to think that he'd do it while, you know,
biting into like a piece of bacon or something and just like, no.
Here's a live feed of me eating bacon. Right. Because yeah, I that's what I would want to happen.
I can't imagine trying to make this, you know, a safe place for everybody. What do you want to
have happen? The people being tricks about it or that like just sit David saying no. I think I'm
more in favor of David saying no in the conversation moving on. Like, I think the other thing is
actually people being dicks about it. I think if someone did come in and they said like,
hey, I actually like am triggered by pictures of meat to the point that I have such empathy for
animals that I'll have a panic attack. Like I've I have a friend who is like this. They are a
VSP, probably a very sensitive person, which is a real psychiatric thing. I think we have one or
two of those on the discord sensitivity that they're kind of born with. Yeah, probably would not
be stressed. And the thing is that as that person, you can be self aware of the fact that I'm
triggered by this thing. And if this is going to be a regular thing here, I realize maybe this is
not the place for me, or maybe I can use one of my like block features, just discolors, I don't
think so, but a sensor feature or something about. Well, and so I'm sympathetic to somebody's
sensitivity there. I think that I think I think entering a room of 100 people and saying everyone
stop talking about this. And I think it's totally okay. I do I agree that the polite and probably
preferable way to do it would be to say, no, we're gonna keep talking about that. You don't have to
hang out though. I think that that would be fine. You know, maybe just avoid the general chat or
whatever this if you know, or the one food channel that we now have, like if you can't handle meat,
then like, then just avoid those areas. That's something that I think makes our community
different from others that I'm involved in, which is like, I've never seen and I'm not I'm not 100%
up to date on everything that happens in ours. But I've never seen an example of somebody
complain about how they can't handle whatever subject or whatever this is, and then stick around
and keep being freaked out by it. If they really are freaked out by it, then I don't want you to be
here. That and that's my thing 100%. You know, like I've seen other other communities where
conversations go fucking wild. And you know, somebody would be talking about the legitimate,
you know, to choose a politically charged example, or an emotionally charged example,
or rather, you know, the, the primary allegation of sexual misconduct against Joe Biden,
discussing its legitimacy can, you know, there's all kinds of worms involved in that can where,
you know, if we don't, if we put this claim to doubt, then we might be doubting the rest of
you know, the legitimacy of most claims or this or that. If we point out that, you know,
some of these seem like it's definitely possible that they're like to even admit the possibility
of a manufactured assault claim. Then you know, suddenly you're this horrible rape apologist,
and I'm going to make it my life's work on this discord to sit here and fight you on it because
I simply can't handle that talk. And it's like, if you can't handle it, then get the fuck out.
I think that we have a great way of just as a community. And this is probably rationalist
of, you know, in the broader rationalist community of a, having fewer of those things that quote,
I just can't handle and be of, look, if you, if you are in that group of people who can't handle
something, then you can, you are welcome to leave. And it doesn't mean that you have to leave the
discord doesn't mean you have to leave the rationalist community. It just means that you
don't hang out in the mind killer channel where we're discussing whether or not this sounds like
bullshit. You know, like I even forget the name of the person, but it was like, oh yeah, when,
when I was 14, Biden diddled me at some, at the, you know, congressional dinner or something.
And then it immediately came out. It's like, actually, he was in another state.
He wasn't at that dinner. So that's impossible. And, you know, and this is the kind of thing
that would get me shat on in some communities too, just pointing out that like, you know,
Biden, the second he got the democratic, well, you know, the second he became the democratic
front runner, I predicted, I should have done this on the air, but it wasn't, you know, it's not a
very out there prediction. There are going to be tons of allegations of misconduct coming out
against Joe Biden that have never happened, you know, that have never surfaced in the past,
because of the exact same machines that made shit up for Trump, right? This is going to,
or not, not, not, not, not made shit up about him, but the same machine that got him elected.
I am 100% convinced that we are going to see a ton of manufactured claims against Biden that
otherwise would never have surfaced because there was not a political machine trying to discredit
him before. Now, that does, does that mean that he's a perfect dude? Hell no, he seems kind of
weird. I've seen, you know, we've all seen the videos. But I, I would bet $1,000 that they're,
in fact, I would already won $1,000. Does this one claim seem to have been made up?
Then they said, Oh, you know what, maybe it was the year before. But it was definitely when, you
know, the thing is, like, no, you said it was when this person was 14 years old. She wasn't
14 years old at the previous congressional dinner. So if you got the year wrong, you got your age
wrong too. And so whether or not this particular case is true or not, you know, my thing is, like,
I am, I am willing to stake literal money that we can't really prove because you can't, you know,
falsify an allegation from 30 years ago. But like, there are going to be made up things about Biden,
simply because the global political machine wants to keep, wants to reelect Trump, right?
The global one being like the Russian bots and all that bullshit. And there's, well,
there's this mind killer territory. Yeah, we, I think we did.
But there is, there, I mean, what you're talking about, there was like, these clowns did get caught
trying to pay some woman to say she was sexually assaulted by Robert Mueller. So like, that's
definitely happened. Yes, thank you. That was another great example. Trying to make up false
claims to, to, you know, own the libs. But like, I think, I feel like the, the
point you were making about this was that it's, you know, something that we're able to discuss
on the discord without it flying off in wild directions. And I completely agree that there's,
there's, I think two places on the internet that I would be comfortable talking about that. And the
Bayesian conspiracy discord is one of them. And the other one is like a Facebook group that I
created specifically to talk about stuff that will get you yelled at.
Yeah. And when you've made your own Walden area, then it's easy enough to curtail it as you want.
And that's the kind of place I want the Bayesian discord server to be, not a place where we
all stood around questioning, you know, sexual assault allegations, but places where we are comfortable
like actually having conversations. And
Yeah, that's Gina. Can you give me peas?
The jealous
Oh my God, that's so many people from the farmers market.
Oh my God, I got so many more than that from my garden. It's insane.
Anyway, Steven, what were you talking about?
That's awesome.
Well, thank you for bringing me home on my on the point I was trying to make because I got kind
of carried away with it. But yes, I mean, so that that's what I want the community to be where,
you know, hey, is this a legit thing? And, you know, the response is an, Oh my God,
you terrible person for asking that question. Whatever question it is,
you know, like, I mean, I try to think of something that isn't so,
you know, horrible as an assault allegation. But, you know, like the, I'm trying to think,
you know, other things we've got, we've got a COVID channel that I think there's a lot of
value in talking about because there's a lot of I think it's, you'd be able to talk about
on the server would be able to talk about in other places the question of like, what are these,
you know, the George Floyd protests worth it in terms of COVID infection? You know, like,
what's the cost benefit? Yeah. And I mean, it's so whichever way you come down on that question.
The the person who asks it isn't going to be crucified. And that that's what I like is that
this is a community where people are capable of bringing up things that are politically salient
or emotionally salient. And everyone can have a conversation about it. I wouldn't want it any
other way. I think that I think it really, oh, you weren't finished. Oh, I was just going to say
that I think that, you know, the only, well, I go ahead. I was just going to say, I think this
comes back to the essay about politics being the mind killer in the sense that my last experience
on a non rationalist discord was somebody mentioning a little that reminds me of the
Slate Sturko to exposed and then suddenly everyone just dog piling and
getting kicked out accused of sea lioning. And it was just, you see these kinds of reactions
when somebody does outgroup signal. And then, oh, no, we got to reinforce the in group, like,
hive mind. And regardless of what people's political opinions are, because like, it's
rationality doesn't have really a political leaning. Like, I think we're more libertarian
than average, based on again, the Slate Sturko, the community polls, which might be
selecting for a slightly different audience anyway. But other than that, I mean, there was
quite a spread, if I recall. Yeah, I almost even David's converted everyone on the discord to
anarcho capitalism now. I'm talking about Slate Sturko. Although that would be fun. Oh,
we could do our own polls. Yeah, we could do polls. I mean, the cool thing is that it doesn't
really matter because if we're left leaning or right leaning or upside down leaning,
people are capable of entertaining the other person's position and engaging with it in a real
way. I just I still don't quite get like, what exactly is happening in the failure mode where
people just freak out and are incapable of having a conversation like uncharitably.
Politics is a mind killer, arguments are soldiers. So you must support all arguments on your side.
And if you don't, it's like you're shooting your own soldiers in the back.
Yeah, but I mean, so we all we all we've all heard that it doesn't like
well, I'd also just wonder, I don't know if is it as simple as the fact that we've all read the
mind killer sequence or many of us have that makes us capable of doing this. I don't think
that that's it. I think it takes more. If somebody says something, we immediately are like maybe
maybe. What's the other side of this? Now, I remember having read the sequences like a few years
before I was in an argument with a co worker where I was like noticing myself
doing bad arguments. I guess like, it did seek seek it did seep into my consciousness enough
where I was hanging out in the rationalist online community, and then hanging out in social justice
communities. And that was kind of before social justice turned into what it is now but it was
around I can never remember her name, but the woman who like got Rachel dollars on
texture hair and then was a that's it. How do you forget?
Anyway, there was some co worker that I was arguing with and I just noticed myself
wishing that I was like, Oh man, I wish that I could like go on my social justice website so I
could find what the correct arguments are. And then I was like, wait a minute. But like,
yeah, I remember having sacred cows. And then it was a really painful process getting rid of them,
killing them. I guess your sacred cows. This is still an open offer for people to find my
sacred cows so I can try and drag them out for slaughter. I think part of my problem is I just
don't care about enough stuff heavily enough to have them. But like if someone's like Steven,
you're obviously super attached to this. There are things I care about and passionate about.
And I'm prepared to argue about but I don't think that I have anything on like this sacred cow
pedestal. Of course, no one does until I pointed out that's why it's an open invitation for people
to find them for me. I think it's an incredibly human thing to have those. But yeah, we can.
Now, I mean, just if this is open invitation to you guys and to the listeners, if anyone
on the discord is like Steven, you seem sacred cowy about this, I'd be interested in talking about
it. You know what? I can't think of anything, which is hilarious. Steven, you're just too chill.
I think we're trying to... Yeah, that's my thing. I'm too... And then of course,
how am I going to argue that I'm not right? I think I'd be like, yeah, you're right. Actually,
that is something that came up actually in my company Slack we were talking about. I forget
how it came up. Someone was talking about how they were stressed out about something. And since I
don't want to use the word not give a fuck, I said give a hoot. And I was like, I ran out of hoots
to give in like 2015. And they're like, yeah, but then the downside of that is that you don't
have a response emotionally to whatever thing. I'm like, oh, yeah, it's not a perfect solution.
It's not even a solution that I chose. I ran out of them. And so this isn't like a sacred
cow thing, but it's just a funny way of how I interact with stuff. It's like, I really just
for most things just don't care. If I do care, this is where it becomes a problem. It's like
too distant for me to connect with emotionally. But this is, you know, more
further abroad than what we were talking about a moment ago.
Yeah. And we've also been going for an hour and 40.
Yeah, I mean, we probably start to wrap up.
Yeah, just about. I felt like there was more ground to cover here that I'm going to regret
not getting to. But you know what, that's how we come back.
We talked about the niceness. We talked about police. I think we were going to talk about
