Hello, my name is Mark Vernon and I wanted to talk about John Vavaki's latest YouTube
lecture in his series Awakening from the Meaning Crisis. It's episode 23 where he gets to romanticism.
Now it doubly interested me, partly because I think romanticism has got really important
clues as to how to awaken from the meaning crisis today. But even more so because in
his lecture John Vavaki mentions a book by Gary Lachman called Lost Knowledge of the
Imagination. And I think that's a really important book because he talks about the
Oxford inkling and thinker Owen Barfield. Owen Barfield himself engaged with romanticism.
He argued that romanticism needs to come of age and try to explain how that might come
about. Now I've picked up Barfield's thread in my own way in fact and have a book coming
out in August, A Secret History of Christianity, which if this interests you, the book might
interest you too, that's enough for the plug. But let me try and say what John Vavaki was
saying and how Owen Barfield's ideas connect into that. Now in the lecture John Vavaki begins
with Descartes, talks about the reaction to that which I think is covered in previous
episodes but really kind of gets going when he comes to the figure of Emmanuel Kant.
Kant makes this very important assumption that kind of launches his own philosophical
project which is that when we know things, when we engage with the world, when we search
our feelings, when we know our reason and our imagination, we can't know the world in
itself. We can't know the thing in itself as it were there's an unbridgeable gap between
ourselves and the world around us and that what we're doing with our critical faculties
is filtering what comes at us from the outside world and with our filters which are also
constructive, making reason, making meaning so that we feel we can navigate and find our
way through life. This is the kind of burden which we conscious beings must bear, that
we can't know the thing in itself but that we can find a way that is located within formed
by these kind of cognitive cultural filters that present a coherent world and so make
us feel like we can live lives. So there is meaning if you like but the price is that
it's meaning located within the prison of our own minds, located only externally, never
really fully knowing how it connects with the world around and about us. This was the
kind of Kantian turn, he called it a Copernican revolution because whilst it tells us something
about meaning, there's a great price we pay which is to not know about the world in itself.
It's a kind of another de-centering, a bit like the earth being de-centered from the
centre of the cosmos. So that's the Kantian move. Now just as an aside actually, John
Verweig, he doesn't mention Kant's moral thought because actually when he comes to his moral
reasoning, Kant kind of opens a door you might say, a little crack onto the world itself.
Partly because he reasons that if morality is true, which he thought it is, he was a
sort of moral realist, he thought it must also be the case that what we can actually
do with our lives must connect with the world around us, otherwise it couldn't be moral
realism. And he also wondered whether our intuitions about what's good and the way that
we get drawn to beautiful things might be as a reality, finding its way through our filters
to some degree when we come to, maybe not our rational faculties, but maybe to our moral
or our aesthetic faculties, there may be more connection there than he otherwise allows.
And that's a really important little sort of crack, which romanticism then really picks up on.
And what romanticism says is that our imaginations project onto the world and so give light the
world back up again if you like. We receive but what we give was Kola Ridge's way of putting
it. Kola Ridge being really important for introducing Kant's ideas to the English-speaking
world. But it raises another question, which is whether when we project out onto the world
with our feeling, you know, through poetry and through art, through music, again, are
we really connecting with the world around and about? And more are we still in this prison?
It may not be a rational prison, it may be a very expressive prison, but it leaves that
question still open. And so what you get after the romantic movement in post-romantic Europe
particularly, so this is all the way through the 19th century into the 20th and still in
the 21st, is two broad post-romantic responses. One is nihilistic, which Viveki picks it
up in his lecture when he talks particularly about Nietzsche. Nietzsche sometimes called
the last romantic. And Nietzsche fosters this idea that it's through our will to power
that we can make meaning if only we're brave enough. So we do project, he thought, onto
a void, onto empty space. But nonetheless we can still live if we can manage to brave
the void. A really recent incarnation of this philosophy in popular culture would be the
writings of Richard Dawkins when he moves away from his science writing and becomes more
of a moralist saying, you know, we must brave the world we find ourselves in, even if science
tells us it's empty, we must brave it. And that's picking up from that response to romanticism.
And then there's another response, the second response, which is in a way more ecstatic.
What it tries to do, I think, not always consciously, but what it's trying to do is fill up the
void with feeling. So it gets into peak experiences. It manifests, for example, in the interest
in drugs and the hope that the way that psychedelic drugs seem to unleash your mind inside. And
there's the hope that actually those vivid experiences, those peaks, are connecting with
the world around you too. And so telling you something that's true. They're cleansing
the doors of perception and showing you there's an infinity beyond to use what William Blake's
expression. I think there's a lot of 20th and 21st century, particularly Christianity
that's like this as well. It's a kind of ecstatic, charismatic Christianity that particularly
measures on, say, the love of a figure like Jesus. And you're encouraged, Sunday by Sunday,
to fall again in love with Jesus, to sing these very kind of affecting songs. But with
the sort of suspicion, you know, is this really true? Is it just pure feeling? And so alongside
this kind of Christianity comes almost endless efforts to justify Christianity, endless efforts
in apologetics to try to sort of make it stack up as well. And I think that this is
partly what Owen Barfield's great friend, C.S. Lewis, got into and why C.S. Lewis is
so very popular. And because on the one hand, he does the imaginative side and with things
like the Narnia stories. But he also does the rational side, trying to make the Christianity
he senses is rounded about him, try to make it stack up rationally as well. But it's
an uneasy, unsettled kind of position to begin to be in. You know, people find they have
to kind of keep trying to repeat the peak experience, whether it be with the psychedelics
or other kinds of ecstasy, or whether it's by going to church and having a wonderful
praise session again. It leaves us sort of slightly unsure. And this is where a third
element comes in, which John Feveki also talked about in his lecture, a third post-romantic
response. And this is the response of psychotherapy, particularly Freud and Jung. Now in the lecture,
Feveki talks about Freud and Jung turning inwards and trying to discern inner life.
It's almost kind of saying, if you can't know the thing in itself, if you can't know the
world round and about for sure, at least you can know your inner life for sure. And Freud
has his response to it, which is to say that your inner life is populated with your own
personal kind of imaginings, things which you've interjected, that you've kind of conjured
from within from your own life. And Jung takes that and adds another dimension, which is the
collective unconscious, the idea that we inherit a kind of inner life too, much like we inherit
fingers from our physiological evolutionary past. So too we inherit a kind of collective
psyche. And so Jung's programme of psychotherapy wasn't just to learn how to relate to the
personal unconscious, but also to the collective unconscious, to watch out for when it overwhelms
us, when it's too much for the ego, and learn how to undergo those experiences, try and
make meaning of them, which really is about the ego trying to learn how to relate to them,
to the big self, as Carl Jung put it. But neither Freud, nor in fact Jung, stopped there. Jung
particularly says different things at different times. He's one of these quite complicated figures
to pin down because at other times he seems to be saying other things. And in particular
Jung at times says it's not actually just about your kind of inner psychology, it's
not just about the inner world and what's going on inside, but that this might connect
with the external reality, with the divine even, certainly with nature and the cosmos
as well. It's telling you something true about the outer world. It is connecting with the
thing in itself. And I think that Jung particularly got this from Coleridge, from Samuel Taylor
Coleridge, a figure who was so important for introducing Kant to the English-speaking
world. Because what Coleridge realised is that there's actually two kinds of imagination.
There is the fantastical imagination. There is the imagination which just sort of plays
that says silly things, which may amuse, may unsettle, but doesn't really go anywhere.
It might imagine, I don't know, lips on a chicken. It might imagine unicorns. And they
may be amusing. They may be troubling. They may tell us even something about our anger
or about our inner life. But it doesn't really go anywhere. And so we have a dream one night
and then a different dream the next night and a different dream after that. But that's
only one type of imagination which he called fantasy. And there is another type of imagination.
And the thing that distinguishes this is that its imaginings last. We return to them
time and time again. And then we notice that they become creative. They actually feel
expansive of life. And they seem to connect us with the world around and about us. And
particularly the post-Freudian British psychotherapist, Donald Winnicott, ran with this. And he made
quite a simple observation in a way. He said, you know, if our inner lives were just
isolated, were just our own, were just full of our own fantasies, then we'd never feel
grounded in life. We'd never feel we belonged. And we never feel we really connected with
others. And we'd be in this sort of constantly infantile state of, you know, trying to fall
in love again, of trying to run with our imaginings. But always feeling slightly mad and even
slightly psychotic with them. We never actually feel sane. We never feel whole people. And
Winnicott argues that, you know, no doubt sometimes people can go into these slightly mad states,
particularly when they either feel the emptiness or they feel the ecstasy. You know, falling
in love would be a good case in point. But most people, most of the time, don't actually
just stay in that kind of state. They move from falling in love, for example, to standing
in love, to making something of their life. And civilizations, too, they build on their
perception of things. And to create forms, cultural forms, which are really very lasting,
and do have a sense of development and progress, and do show that they can grow their sense
of reality. And not just as a word play on the surface of reality. So Donald Winnicott,
as he put it, he said, we have a kind of false self which dances and plays. But we also
have a true self which perhaps connects to the more. Now Barfield himself, too, is very
much in that kind of camp. He argued that we can go through these periods of alienation
and uncertainty when we're not sure what's going on. But that's only one kind of participation
in the world. And there is another kind, which he called final participation. And again,
as a side, those of you who listen to John Fakie will know that participation is a key
word for him. For Barfield, it means that full sense of connecting with the world, with
others, with the cosmos and nature. And by full sense, he meant participating with all
our faculties, with reason, yes, but also with imagination, and with feeling, yes, but
also with kind of cognition, so that things can be built up in scientific enterprises
or aesthetic enterprises. And we know when we're looking at final participation, and
not just playfulness, when we feel it is taking us somewhere, when, like Colouridge's
imagination, and we feel it's creative, it opens up, it feels expansive of the soul.
And we are in this dynamic of reaching out, but something's returned, something real
connects back with us, and there's this sense of connecting with the thing in itself. So
Barfield cultivated this notion of final participation. And he, in particular, took a lead from
Christianity in that. He notices, again something very obvious, that Christianity, for about
1500 years, was the dominant way that people felt connected to reality. It shaped the mind
of our ancestors in the West, you know, for many centuries. Clearly it's undergone a crisis
since the Reformation, since the Scientific Revolution, since the Enlightenment, since
figures like Kant. But nonetheless, there's something Barfield argued for us to pick up
from Christianity still, and carry into this final participation. And it comes from the
key Christian notion of incarnation. Now, the doctrine of the incarnation is that there
was a figure who lived 2000 years ago, Jesus, who also participated fully in the Divine
Life, and so he was both God and human. And that's the sort of standard Christian
confession. But Barfield takes a lead from Christian mysticism, particularly figures like
Kant, who said, look, the real incarnation that matters is not the one that happened
2000 years ago. That was the one that just awoke us to a different way of participating
in life. Because the real incarnation that matters now is the one that's happening within
our souls now. It's when external reality, outer life, even Divine life, it seemed to be
mirrored and reflected and connected, participated, you might say, in our own inner lives, when
there is this sense of joining and expansion. So the sort of Christianity now, Barfield
argued, would major on this, would cultivate the ways that people might know of the
incarnation, the bring into body, you might say, of not just Divine life, but external
in their own lives, and so join it up and so integrate it, you might say. It's a kind
of awakening of consciousness that realizes it's not just my consciousness, but the
consciousness of the whole world that I'm awakening to. So this is Barfield's notion
of final participation, this incarnational idea. Now, I think there were at the
beginnings of this emergence of final participation, and figures like John Vavaki,
others in the emergence movement, the integral movement, very much on to this idea. But
Barfield has a particular contribution to make to it, which I unpack in my book and
will unpack in further talks. But let me just say now how I think this final participation
is emerging, say in roughly four stages. The first stage, I think you can call the
kind of chaotic stage, and this is the more fantastical stage. This is when someone
goes on a trip and has an amazing experience that's hard to put down, but at the same time
they don't quite know what to make of it. It's the New Age movement, what the philosopher
Charles Taylor called the supernovae of modern quests for meaning, where there's
experiments here, experiments there, some of it's wild and wacky, some of it seems to
make sense, some of it's misguided, you know, I think of things like quantum spirituality
in this category, sort of reaching for a bit of physics, which itself is not really well
understood, but sort of making resonances, trying to draw analogies. It's a kind of chaotic
experiment, easy to mock, but I think actually important still, because it is an attempt to
connect to reality round and about, to know the thing in itself, to move beyond the pure
Kantian movement. So that'd be the first stage, the first stage of this kind of chaotic attempt
to participate afresh. It settles down a bit and learns how to speak about itself more
coherently. In the second stage, which I think of as the kind of wander stage, it's the stage
that you find, say, in a lot of nature writing, the kind of nature writing that can bring
together the science, but also elicit a felt sense, not just of your own response to nature,
but seems to be opening up nature in itself to you as well. And actually, I think a lot of
science writing does this too. It's still officially atheistic, it's still officially saying
there isn't an inner life in the cosmos, and there's certainly no divinity that underpins
it all, and the holds life in a kind of divine life. But nonetheless, it can't quite put the idea down
too. It seems to be moving in that direction, and so fills us with wonder, and with a sense that
somehow we can't quite just be in this void, that the nihilistic response isn't quite enough.
So that'd be a second stage, the kind of wander stage, which is a bit more coherent.
Books can be written about it, and they feel like they're opening you up to something.
They take you to a kind of edge, and you wonder what's over the edge. Great Nature and Science
Writing does this. It leads to a third stage, which I think is the kind of discernment stage.
And I think this particularly begins with therapy. I work as a psychotherapist, so why wouldn't I say this?
But I think what psychotherapy is about is, first of all, beginning to discern your own in life of fantasy,
