this kind of more chaotic way of things, and then realizing that there is a kind of inner imagination
that tells you something really true about yourself. It begins by helping you make sense of your own story,
building up your own narrative, seeing how you got to where you are as an individual.
But it doesn't actually stop there in therapy, because when you discern your own inner life,
you, as it were, move to an edge of your personal inner life, and there you start to realize that
the world around you can be detected, as it were, it starts to speak to you afresh.
You know, people start noticing things like synchronicities. They start realizing their dreams
might be telling them more than just about themselves. They also have different experience of time.
You know, in the therapy room, sometimes time chugs away a bit like clock time,
but sometimes it moves into a different experience of time, something that feels a bit more timeless, actually,
and you realize that in the depths of the psyche, it's a kind of eternity, a kind of timelessness.
There's a very different experience of what it is to be in the world, and that reaches beyond just your own story
and brings in the story of your culture, and even the divine story, I think,
moves into spirituality, you might say, moves into a kind of mysticism.
So that's a really important stage, this stage of discernment, that can understand when you're in fantasy
and when you're in proper imaginative creativity in Kodurage's sense,
that reaches out to reality and has reality speaking back to you, knowing the thing in itself.
This is very much connected to the idea of developmental psychology, people like Robert Keegan and so on,
who I think are onto this in their own way. I don't actually think of it as a linear development.
I'll talk more about this in another talk, but it's much more like a kind of return to an earlier sense of participation,
but with this crucial notion of self-consciousness, self-awareness,
it's a way of discerning what our deep ancestors would have talked about in myth, for example.
They would have felt fated, whereas we can feel free with this new self-consciousness.
So it's kind of adding something to that which was before,
rather than being the more straightforwardly linear notions of development,
which you get in people like Seiken, Wilbur, there's a lot more to be said about that.
But for now, let me finish by sort of saying how I think maybe four things happen
when you start to reach this phase of discernment.
So this would be a kind of final stage, which you might call sort of true knowledge marked by four things.
Final participation, let me say rather than true knowledge, final participation marked by four things.
One would be that you become less interested in morality and much more interested in virtue.
Now, by morality, I mean the shoulds and shouldn'ts, you know, moral issues, moral causes,
and the kind of things which do fill up the cultural wars now.
That starts to become less interesting, and instead you get more interested in the virtues of your character,
who you are and yourself.
And the reason this becomes interesting is because you realise that virtues are actually tuning yourself
to be able to perceive more of the world around you.
They're like cleaning the window of perception of virtues and they take you into the external world
so that as it were, you can tolerate whatever's happening, but discern it as well.
I think that's what virtues like goodness and courage, temperance, wisdom, and that's what they enable you to do.
So if you find yourself getting less interested and less anxious about moral issues
and more interested in who you are and yourself
and how that enables you to resonate with the world around you through your character, through your personality,
I think that's another good indicator of this move towards final participation.
That'd be one.
A second one would be kind of how you love.
And in particular, I think that it's a kind of love that moves from a possessiveness and the desire to have and to hold,
the desire to feel secure, say, in a relationship that's sort of tied up and that's free of doubt.
And instead it's the kind of love that seeks to praise, that wants to enjoy, that wants to flow with and go with.
Again, you can perhaps sort of see this how it's the move from a kind of love that wants to grab and hold within,
to a love that wants to praise by moving from within to without.
It's kind of giving love.
I think this is why people talk a lot about the ego now and are wondering what the ego is all about
because there's a kind of ego love that wants to have and that biggs up the ego.
But there's also kind of ego love that's actually quite comfortable with itself.
It loves itself enough, you might say, to sort of let go of itself
and then to use that sight of discernment and awareness, that sight of participation to praise and to love the world round and about.
So I think that's another kind of key indicator of this move to final participation.
The move from a kind of possessiveness to kind of praise of the world round and about.
A different take on this dynamic of love.
A fourth one would be the cultivation of wisdom.
And it's a move, I think, from kind of rule-based wisdom to law-based wisdom.
You know, the kind of sense that if you've got 10 or 12 things sorted in your life, then life will tend to go well.
That can be a very useful first stage.
But wisdom proper becomes flexible.
It's actually a response to the moment.
And it knows that what might be the appropriate thing to do at one time is not the appropriate thing to do at another time.
It's a kind of practical intelligence, a practical knowledge that can play with reality in the sense of providing the next stepping stone,
just the next model, you might say, the next moment of illumination that expands life,
that wisely takes you back into life so that you can, again, know the thing in itself.
So the move from a sort of rule-based approach to things to one that's much more flexible, you might say, a kind of living wisdom.
When you feel yourself going into that zone, into that mode, I think that too is a kind of final participation.
That's the third.
And then the fourth one I just wanted to mention for now is the sense that this is freeing.
It's to move into a kind of freedom.
It's to move away from the old fear of either the void, the nihilistic fears,
or actually the secret fear that's embedded in the heart of ecstasy,
the fear that you've got to just to get the next sort of peak experience,
the next great religious moment for fear that that will sort of disappear and leave you empty.
That fear starts to die and it's replaced by a kind of a sort of fearlessness which is characterised by freedom.
It's knowing that although the world in itself might throw all sorts of things at you
it ultimately will bring death in itself and also the little endings, the little deaths that go on the way.
Nonetheless, there's a connection with the world in itself that there's something beyond that,
there's something more than that, that life as it were itself is the prior state of being.
In the old Christian dispensation, this was the notion of death and resurrection.
Again, something which Christians said happened 2000 years ago and we can kind of prove now
and prove that Christianity is true, much like the Incarnation.
I think, no, no, Barfield said that kind of Christianity has got to go
and instead we've got to know death and resurrection in ourselves now,
which means knowing that we can move beyond ourselves to life in all its fullness,
to life that's the thing in itself, that's the world, the divine in itself now.
I think Jesus himself might have left little clues actually to this as he's recorded in the Gospel
when he says these really fascinating things to the disciples like after his resurrection he says,
do not cling to me.
It's sort of saying this has got to be known in yourself now.
The resurrection appearances are these very strange appearances where he's there one minute and then not the next.
Again, I think this is handing over the thing which you might say he himself has discovered
to the disciples so they can know the thing in themselves and it's a freeing moment.
Whenever you feel yourself going towards a kind of newfound freedom, the old fears start to fall away.
That's another key test.
So this final participation, it's the move from morality, from ethics, issues to virtues,
to the cultivation of your character that enables a perception.
It's when you feel love moving from a kind of possessive I must have to a praise I can give.
The ego wants to share rather than to know in the more possessive sense.
It's the fourth thing which is the notion that wisdom is a kind of practical playfulness with reality
where a rule that was true one minute actually becomes a very different rule that's true the next.
And so the old law based approach gives way to a kind of practical intelligence that moves with the flow.
And then finally I think it's the notion that the fear, the old fears that perhaps Kant instilled in us
when he said yes we can know things but at the price that we're trapped in our minds.
The fear that the Nietzschean moment brings that there is this void but we need to cultivate the will to power to kind of brave it.
When that fear itself kind of gives away into a newfound freedom, a new play and joyfulness with life
that too according to Owen Barfield is this new final participation.
There's lots more to say about this.
Maybe John Vivakie too will be saying more about this in subsequent episodes of his series Awakening from the Meaning Crisis.
I'm sure certainly try and say more too.
