And the way he described it is like this, such as life and inserting itself, a drawing
off to its advantage, a parasitizing of the downward course of energy from its noble solar
form to the degraded one of low temperature heat.
In this downward course, which leads to equilibrium and thus death, life draws a bend and nests
in it.
And I think that beautifully kind of encapsulates in some ways the transient nature of all this,
right?
Because remember, as, you know, we're arguing here that entropy is increasing.
All of this depends on this entropy increase that can only go on for so long, right?
So all these beautiful things that we see, all these beautiful patterns, these complicated
structures, inherent in their physics is, of course, their transience and their eventual
death through equilibrium.
So in some ways, like, you know, we're, you know, it's kind of a mixed blessing.
We have all these beautiful things, but they won't last forever.
Do you see ATP in viruses, in prions?
So viruses basically are just kind of protein capsids incorporating genetic material.
So in order to actually copy themselves, they have to insert themselves into a host like
a bacterium, for example, and they use the machinery, the metabolic machinery of the
host to make the copy.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, the virus in itself just sitting there is not, you know, you know, if there's
no active biochemical cycle there, I wouldn't call that life.
Once it's inserted there, it becomes a component of active biochemical cycles, and then in
some sense, it becomes a part of a living thing.
So do you come down on the metabolism first versus, you know, a nucleic acid or a brain?
Yes.
So part of, okay, so again, this is more kind of, you know, I'm a physicist, not a chemist,
but I think part of what this kind of work that I showed here is arguing is in some sense
the answer to the, you know, which came first, the chicken and the egg is both.
That you can have a chemistry where all the various elements that you need can arise more
or less simultaneously, and that in some sense seems the most plausible case because it's
really hard to think of, you know, containers containing nothing, you know, things that
need to be replicated like genetic material without the mechanisms, you know, the machinery
to replicate them, right?
So in some sense, you kind of would like as, you know, in something as an Occam's razor
kind of most simplest thing, that somehow these, all things more or less arose around
the same time.
Again, whether there could be more complicated mechanisms by which you have one thing existing
right before the other.
The Origins Science Scholars Lectures are presented by Case Western Reserve University's
Institute for the Science of Origins with the assistance of the Segal Lifelong Learning
Program, the College of Arts and Sciences, and MediaVision.
For more information on the Origins Science Scholars Program, including a full video
archive, please visit the Institute's website at origins.case.edu.
