In our final segment, Professor Hynchewski will talk about thermodynamics and the origin
of life.
Now, back to our talk.
So if you take a, you know, again, comparing or going back to this comparison with a battery,
it seems like a very, very different system, right?
So we have, but when I argue it's not that much different, right?
So on one hand we have a system that's kind of, has some preferred direction, right?
Here it's the mode, it's the proteins, you know, preferably going in one direction.
Here it was the electrons preferably going in one direction around the wire.
We have some process that's going on where energy is being utilized.
Here it's the synthesis of ATP.
Here it's the motor turning.
We have some power source.
Here it's a battery.
This was just such a chemical potential energy.
Here that battery is in something, the imbalance of ions on one side of the membrane versus
the other.
And as a necessary sort of consequence of the second law of thermodynamics, heat has to
be released.
There has to be some amount of loss of energy through heat.
Now if you let both of these systems run indefinitely, what would happen?
Well, your battery would become depleted.
It would go to equilibrium, right?
The electrons would stop moving in a preferred direction.
Here if you kept on running this thing forever, eventually this, there would be the equal
number of ions on one side of the membrane versus the other.
And now your protein would begin to have, it would still kind of move, but in random
ways and not with a preferred direction.
So basically your battery would become depleted.
So what happens in nature is, well, in our case, sometimes you switch out the batteries,
maybe it's a rechargeable battery, we can recharge it.
In nature we pump out, we pump those ions continuously back out, right?
How that pumping occurs differs from organism to organism.
And in our case, it's we ingest food and some of that energy is being converted into pumping
out those ions.
Let me give you one kind of very simple example.
This is from a simple bacterium where that pumping occurs because of another protein called
bacteria rhodopsin on the membrane.
And it basically interacts with photons from sunlight and uses that energy from the photons
to basically drive its own cycle of pumping where it pumps those ions back out.
On the other side of the membrane, then you have an imbalance form.
That imbalance then is used to power this ATP synthase to basically produce the ATP,
then that drives other biological processes, right?
And this is one particular example, but in some ways everything that we know about life
is kind of built on kind of these nested cycles, right?
So I'm going to kind of draw it like this, right?
So you might have some fundamental energy source on top.
In this case, it was a photon.
That energy source powered a cycle which created a certain imbalance.
In this case, it was an ion gradient, so more ions on one side of the membrane to the other.
That ion gradient, that imbalance, in turn then powered a different imbalance, right?
Another cycle primarily in one direction of the ATP synthase protein, which then in turns
powers other cycles driven primarily in one direction, all of our metabolic cycles and
cell division, things like this.
At every step, because we are driving things primarily in one direction, so we're breaking
the symmetry, we have to pay our dues to the second law.
So we have to dissipate energy.
We have to, there has to be some heat release at every single step of the process.
So note that because of energy conservation, that means the energy available to all the
lower tiers becomes progressively lower and lower and lower.
We're wasting energy all throughout.
But that waste is not somehow a bad thing.
It's what makes us living, right?
Because without that waste, there wouldn't be this broken symmetry.
We wouldn't have our cycles going around primarily in one direction.
So in fact, you sitting here, all of us, are releasing about 100 watts of power, which
is the old, this is not an audience where I have to remind people of what incandescent
light bulbs are, but to my students I may have to do that.
But I mean, it's about the power of an old fashioned, now old fashioned light bulb.
So that 100 watts of power releasing into the atmosphere, that is in some sense the indicator
of all the non-equilibrium thermodynamic processes going on inside of our bodies, all the biochemical
cycles being primarily driven in one direction.
The net result of that is this 100 watts that we're releasing out into the atmosphere.
So that was one thing, one particular organism.
How does it happen for others?
Well, it turns out that from this kind of cascade, there are two parts that are really
universal to all known life that we see around us.
One is the ion gradient of some kind, the other is ATP as this energy molecule, as this
currency.
What drives the ion gradient is now, in modern living organisms, is not universal anymore.
In some cases here it was a photon, in us it's ingesting of other material.
For bacteria living near hydrothermal vents at the bottom of the ocean, might be some
chemical sources which drive this.
So that becomes that first step in the top part of the cascade is no longer universal.
And of course, the things that we do with ATP differ from different organisms, so that's
no longer universal.
But in some sense, if we're trying to think of this as these nested chemical cycles where
one thing, one imbalance drives another, dissipating heat along the way, ultimately speaking, tracing
this evolutionary history back to the beginning of time, there had to be some fundamental original
imbalance that drove the first glimmers, the first echoes of these kind of cycles forward.
Where things were driven out of an equilibrium state to primarily go into one direction.
And on earth it turns out that if you do this kind of detective work, going forensically,
going back in time, everything that we see around us, that's interesting in some sense.
All things that are not in equilibrium, so air currents, ocean currents, plate tectonics,
all the chemical cycles in life.
And I'm trying to argue that mathematically we can lump all of these things together as
being different versions of the symmetry is broken, where things are going around in currents.
All of these have to be traced back to two fundamental imbalances.
And those are the fact that we're sitting next to a star which is bombarding us with
photons, beautiful source, they're transient on the scale of billions of years of energy
that can drive imbalances.
The other is geological, the fact that there's heat released as the core of the earth kind
of solidifies.
There are radioactive elements in the mantle that are decaying which provides heat.
So kind of geological and solar are really our two sources.
And unsurprisingly, there are two major camps in the origins of life field.
People who think that maybe life emerged in kind of like shallow surface lakes exposed
to sunlight, or people who think that maybe life emerged in deep ocean hydrothermal events.
Where we kind of have this clear division between these two imbalances, then of course
there could be combinations of the two.
You can have shallow surface lakes at Yellowstone or Yellowstone like things where there's some
kind of geothermal aspects to it as well.
But the field kind of breaks into two camps and can we use thermodynamics in some sense
to kind of maybe give an edge to one camp versus the other.
And again, I'm not going to say anything definitive, so this is still an ongoing question and there
are mechanisms by which both origins might work.
But this is actually, this is a kind of complicated graph, but let me walk you through it.
On the horizontal axis, think of this as energy.
And this is energy now measured here in terms of units of milli-electron volts.
It doesn't really matter what the units are, but from low to high.
And here we also see the corresponding energies of photons, where visible photons, the light
from the visible spectrum part of light is about this range of energies.
Above that is the so-called ultraviolet part of the electromagnetic spectrum.
Here in this green range are energies typically associated with biochemical processes, like
for example ATP hydrolysis, things like this.
This is membrane potential energy.
So they live in this kind of infrared range of the spectrum.
On the bottom of this graph are ranges of energies available from certain sources.
So here in blue is water heated up to its critical temperature, beyond which it is no
longer liquid in some sense.
Here is like the energies available from like lava, like molten rock at really high temperatures.
This orange curve is the energy available from the sun, the solar spectrum.
And out here at really much higher things are basically intermittent strikes of lightning.
Now if we think about this kind of range of sources, you can say, well look, molten rock,
water temperatures, high water temperatures, they do kind of give us, get us within the
ballpark of what we see as biochemical energies.
But then if we consider now what I've tried to argue over the last few slides, the fact
that we do have to pay this due to a second law, there has to be dissipation.
So your energy input has to be larger than what you're using the energy for.
We would in principle want to gravitate to like the largest persistent source of energy
available to us.
And that's pretty much the UV part of the spectrum of photons from the sun.
Those are kind of the highest energy sources that are constantly available to us, bombarding
us all the time, and basically have the largest allowance, the largest gap between that amount
of energy and the energy that we're using for biological processes.
And this in some sense is then the thermodynamic argument for why a photon-based, a light-based
origin of life is more plausible.
Again, it's not the final word.
This is definitely not a closed book.
Also a very high energy source, but I would argue probably too intermittent unless somebody's
willing to argue that the early earth atmosphere was lightning all the time.
But photons certainly are there.
And the other part of the thing, which is actually kind of very exciting because the
field has actually really blossomed in the last two years, there is now developments
in chemistry that support this notion.
So in particular, there's been work by Jack Sostak at Harvard, and this is John Southerl
in Cambridge.
And what they were able to finally show in the last few years is a 2015 paper, is now
there is a plausible chemistry that we can associate to making the basic elements of
life.
So lipids, which are the containers, the things that make up cell membranes, amino acids,
which are the bases of our proteins, things like RNA, nucleotides for genetic material.
All of these can be synthesized under what the field considers plausible conditions similar
to early earth, and critically, the catalyst here is ultraviolet light.
So there seems to be in some ways this, again, this is a plausibility argument.
It's not a definitive thing, but we can say, UV light is then, thermodynamically speaking,
the most attractive option for an origin of life.
And now we have a plausible chemistry driven by UV light that can actually lead to the
synthesis of these types of living materials.
Again, is this the actual chemistry that occurred in earlier life?
We will probably never know that for certain, but these are different pieces of the puzzle
that we're putting together.
So we're coming towards the end of the talk.
So what I want to emphasize at the end is, again, we think of chemistry and all these
other things like hurricanes to be really two very, very different things.
What I want to argue is that they're really truly connected to each other in this deep
mathematical way through the notion of entropy, and that all these processes are all connected
through non-equilibrium thermodynamics.
And it's kind of the line of argument that I tried to make tonight is something along
the following.
So if you see a current, if you see this symmetry breaking where a certain sequence of events
is more likely than the reverse, that necessarily implies there has to be some entropy increase
in the universe.
That entropy increase typically occurs through dissipation of heat into the environment.
OK, if heat is dissipated into the environment, what does that mean?
That means it requires a persistent power input, because you're losing energy, so that
energy has to be coming from something, and this is more or less what the kind of conceptual
framework what it boils down to.
What's interesting is this will apply just as well to exoplanets as it does to Earth.
These are universal aspects of what we understand to be laws of physics, and so any mechanism
we think of life arising anywhere else still has to obey these basic thermodynamic ideas.
And I just to kind of wrap up, this particular notion is kind of interwoven cascades of chemical
cycles where you start with like a photon on top and then, you know, dissipate energy
throughout.
I was discussing this in one of my classes, and a colleague, Robin Snyder, was a theoretical
ecologist.
She pointed out this beautiful, beautiful quote from Primo Levy, which summarizes this much,
much better and more eloquently than I could.
This is from a short story of his called Carbon, which I highly recommend.
Just go Google it and read it.
