And in fact, if you run this forever, it will never, ever reach the Boltzmann equation.
So that thing carved in stone is clearly not universally true.
If you keep on running this a long time, it's going to kind of look like a 1980s screensaver.
It's kind of mesmerizing.
But it's surely not this kind of spreading out in all of position space that we saw before,
where it almost looked like a gas, right?
Spreading out through a volume.
Here it's much more ordered, right?
And that's clearly reflected by the fact that our entropy is much smaller, all right?
So I think we're going to need a revision on our law.
Terms and conditions may apply.
And in fact, this is actually a subtle and difficult problem because this is, well, from
the mathematician standpoint, this is enough to show that clearly this is not a universal
law, but can it be shown for any systems?
So it turns out that the only place where this law has been rigorously proven is for
these kind of simple mathematical games like billiards.
And Yakov Sinai, who was the first person to actually prove this for a billiards system,
actually won what's the equivalent of a Nobel Prize in math, the 2014 Abel Prize for this
proof.
It's ridiculously hard.
And that's for one particle bouncing around.
It becomes even more difficult.
Like, it's not even proven for a group of balls bouncing off of each other in a simple
two-dimensional surface.
So it's quite a difficult thing.
What do you mean by an isolated system?
So in this particular case, I mean a system that doesn't exchange energy or particles
with its surroundings, right?
So this is, I mean, later on we'll consider systems like biological systems where we're
clearly sitting here, you know, this room is a certain temperature.
We're constantly exchanging energy particles in the gas around us or bouncing off of us,
passing us and taking energy away from us.
So that's a more complicated scenario.
So in this particular case, I mean a system that has no exchange of energy or particles
or anything else with its surroundings.
For both of those shapes, does the size of the shape matter?
In other words, if the stadium was round or if it was higher and wider or in the square,
if it was higher and wider, does that have anything to do with it?
The absolute size of the shape doesn't matter except that circles are a bit different.
So it does have to have this combination of straight and curved edges, but the actual dimensions
of the shape don't matter too much.
It'll matter in terms of how long it may take to equilibrate, but beyond that, the second
law will hold for the curved stadium, yeah.
Be, you know, again in the shape of the arena.
For example, when you have a curved one and you've got objects ricocheting off of a curve,
they have, you know, a bigger range of direction they can travel in when you hit a straight
line or a flat surface.
The angle of incidence equals the angle of deflection, yeah.
So that's actually, you bring up a very interesting point because it turns out that in this particular
shape, the way the dynamics are designed, the angle of incidence always does equal the
angle of reflection, but you have to define the angle as kind of the tangent to the circle
when you're doing the, when you're doing the kind of curved circular part.
So it's basically the line that just touches, that just grazes the edge of the circle.
And then it bounces off of that line.
But what you bring up, which is actually is true, is that the behavior off curved surfaces
is much different than the behavior of straight lines.
And that's why in the rectangular case, you get much less divergence.
So a little extra kind of, you know, the slight mathematical difference there is enough to
create this divergence.
But it's actually a really, it's a really subtle point, and it's not something that
like you can, well, I'm gonna actually, I'm gonna say you can't generalize it, but I'm
gonna literally just do that in the next slide, but it's very difficult to prove rigorously.
And that's why it's kind of, you know, I mean, Yakov Sinai was one of these mathematicians
who sat in the back of physics lectures and looked at what the physicists were saying
and thought, like, this is just ridiculous.
They're making so many assumptions.
Let me go back to first principles and prove it, and then it took them like a career to
prove one simple thing.
What if the arena were shaped, say, like a hexagon or a pentagon?
I think from, I have to double check this.
I believe that any combination of straight edges would not give you chaos, but I would
have to double check that.
I haven't seen this game played in like polygons, but I think you do need to have these curved
surfaces for this to work.
Thank you for joining us.
You've been watching Professor Mike Hynchefsky introducing the basic concepts of non-equilibrium
thermodynamics.
For more information on the Origins Science Scholars Program, please visit the institute's
website at origins.case.edu.
In the next part of the talk, Professor Hynchefsky will discuss entropy and the chemistry underlying
life.
Now, back to the talk.
There is clearly something called the second law of thermodynamics, which we learn about
in textbooks and which does exist, but in some ways it's kind of a leap of faith, right?
What I want to kind of emphasize is, yes, we look at these shapes of the surfaces, but
what really was the distinguished thing was one led to this kind of chaotic dynamics which
was highly dependent on initial conditions, the other didn't.
We believe, again, this very, very rough rule of thumb that complicated systems, meaning
systems with lots and lots of particles like all of us and the universe around us, with
strong interactions where particles bouncing off, interacting with each other through fundamental
physical forces, that system taking an aggregate is indeed a chaotic system.
And we, of course, we know that for things like weather systems, we see chaos all the
time.
And in particular, we think the entire universe, observable universe, falls in this category.
And this is why we can talk about, at least as a kind of leap of faith, a second law for
the universe, even though we can't rigorously mathematically prove it.
Now one thing I wanted to do is an aside, and this is, again, I apologize to actual
cosmologists in the audience.
People love to talk about the entropy of the universe.
What actually is it and what does it look like?
So this is the best estimate that I could find, but it's going to, it looks like that.
This is based on a paper from Egan and Lineweaver published a few years ago, and I wanted to
convince you, it's a little bit different than our line, you know, entropy increasing
over time in the stadium, but still same pattern, things increase over time.
So this is, the time scale is a little bit different.
You can notice this is like 10 to the minus 40, 10 to the minus 21, 10 to the 20.
We're about 10 to the 17 seconds since the Big Bang.
But overall, that entropy has increased by fairly large, you know, it kind of stays constant
for a while and then has these huge increases over time, and we're right about here kind
of on this final plateau before an extrapolated value where eventually the universe will end
up in heat death and perfect equilibrium, right?
That's the maximum over there.
We're not there yet.
We still have time to go, happily.
Now what's really interesting about, I'm not going to talk about all the, what causes
all these individual bumps, just kind of an aside, what's really interesting is if you
have to guess what contributes the most to the entropy of the universe in the current
moment, it's actually quite interesting.
So here's our entropy.
So 10 to the 104 in these units of K, and these are the contributions.
So supermassive black holes.
So these are the black holes that can be billions of times the mass of our sun, 99.999% a lot.
What else contributes to the entropy?
Oh, there's also smaller black holes.
Those are in there about .0001%.
And there's a bunch of other things, photons, you've got to add a bunch of zeros.
And then there's a whole list in this paper, and eventually you'll get down to ordinary
matter, including all of us in the audience here, and the rest of the stars and other
matter in the universe.
And that's our fraction of the total entropy.
In a weird way, and again, something that's not the topic of this course, black holes
dominate the entropy budget of the universe to a ridiculous extent.
In fact, that recent black hole that you all saw in the news, that famous, the black hole
picture, that's about 10 to the 95 K in entropy.
If you, based on its extrapolated parameters, that has 100 trillion times more entropy.
In other words, 100 trillion times more addresses living on the surface of that black hole than
all the ordinary of the matter in the universe put together.
So one way of looking at the issue of complexity in terms of the entropy, this second law says
the entropy of the universe must always increase, is in some sense, all of us here are highly,
highly irrelevant to the overall entropy budget of the universe.
That cannot be said enough.
I mean, in some sense, the fact that you have these stars burning for a few billion years,
and you have some rocky planets circling those stars, and some chemical processes happening
on those planets that lead to some kind of self-aware life, I mean, that's kind of like
froth on a giant ocean, where the vast majority, the bulk of that ocean is living on the surface
of black holes.
So in some sense, what's happening with black holes dominates the entropy budget, and everything
else is kind of like, you know, you can't even call it a rounding error, because this
is like such a tiny, tiny fraction of it.
Now, that's not quite the end of the story, right?
Because in that sense, then we could say, well, anything goes, because, you know, at
some level, like, the fact that we have, we lower our entropy state a little bit here,
it doesn't really matter that much in terms of the universal entropy budget, but it's
not quite that, right?
Because in some sense, the second law doesn't just apply to the universe as a whole, it
also applies to subsystems of the universe, and that's where we pay kind of the dues
to the second law in everything that we do.
All right, so how does the second law play out on smaller scale?
So that was the end of our cosmology aside.
To understand this kind of, you know, its implications on our scale, let's take a look
at some snapshots.
So we're going to go back to our game, and now we're going to look at, let's say the
first 20 seconds, okay?
So we're going to look at that movie again, first 20 seconds of it, while the entropy
is increasing, let's watch, all right?
So the thing kind of diverges, and then the movie will stop, all right?
I'm going to show you a second version of that, and you can just shout out what you
think is going on.
So this is the second version of that.
It's converging.
What have I done?
I'm playing, okay, yes.
Obviously, it seems like I'm playing backwards.
The answer is no.
I'm almost doing that, and in fact, I'm getting the same result.
What I've actually done is I've started in this configuration here, that was the configuration
at 20 seconds, and all I've done is I've reversed all the velocities.
So I basically, these were the old velocities here in pink, I've now just moved them across
the other side of the circle, and just, you know, rearranged all the directions.
And when you do that, everything just converges back to the beginning.
It seems like it's going backwards in time, right?
To us, psychologically, that's what seems to be happening, and in fact, this is actually
true that for any physical system, you can actually reverse things, right?
So people have actually just a few days ago that was in the news that people have managed
to do this for several qubits.
They more or less were able to have qubits evolve in time for a certain amount of time,
do some complicated quantum mechanical manipulations, and those qubits, those little quantum particles,
would then evolve backwards, kind of, they called them Benjamin Button, you know, qubits.
Now, why did you think it was going backwards in time?
Because to us, you know, our experience of the world, we know that there's a certain
sequence of things that are more likely to happen versus the other.
For example, we know that little babies grow up to be teenagers, grow up to be middle-aged
people, grow up to eventually, you know, be older, and then eventually we die.
That's, we see that all the time.
We rarely see except in movies with Brad Pitt, you know, old people becoming infants,
you know, and reverting back.
Now it turns out that there's nothing inherently violating the laws of physics of having a
Benjamin Button.
It's just highly, highly unlikely.
And this is one of the things that we, that kind of a consequence that we're going to
