We spent a lot of time reading these papers, so you can see there's these different layers,
they label them one through six, but that's really a misnomer, it's just sort of a rough
guide, and there's these very prototypical projections that go between different layers
and different cells in different layers, and there's different types of connections that
indicated those here by blue and green, and this is very much more complicated than this.
But this is sort of a prototypical circuitry, and we can make a few general observations
about this.
In general observation, there are dozens of different types of neurons, and by different
types, I mean they have different sort of response properties, different connectivity
properties, maybe different sort of gene expressions, and so on.
They're roughly organized into layers.
Most of the connections in the neocortex are across the layers, so the input comes into
layer four, and then it goes up and down and back and forth like this, and there's very
limited connections horizontally, there's a few layers that predict long distances.
So information comes up and down, up and down, and then it spreads on a few layers
of long distances.
One of the surprising things is that all regions in the neocortex, and people didn't know this
until 20 years ago or so, have a motor output.
So we think about, oh, there's a sensory input that gets, you know, the part that gets your
input from the eyes, and then it goes up and down the heart, and then you do some behavior.
It turns out that everywhere you look, there are these cells in layer five, which project
some place in the rest of the body of the brain to make movement.
So even in the primary visual cortex, the first part that gets input from the retina
has cells that project back to an old part of the brain that moves the eyes, and regions
of the auditory cortex project old parts of the brain that move your head, and so every
sense in the brain is a sensory motor issue.
There's no pure sensory input.
It's sensory motor all the way, every region is sensory motor.
Now, a couple of observations here.
This circuitry and its complexity is remarkably the same everywhere.
It doesn't matter if you look at a region that's doing language or vision or hearing
or some unknown function, it looks like this.
Now this is an area of contention because you can find differences in the different regions.
There are some regions that have more of this cell type and less of that cell type, some
are a little bit thicker, some are a little thinner, some have an extra special little
thing here and that, but the variation between the different areas of the neocortex is remarkably
small compared to the commonality.
So that's an incredible observation and another thing we can say about this is this is a very
complex circuit and it's going to do something complex.
It's not going to do a simple function.
This is the complexity there for a reason.
Okay, now how do you make sense of all this?
The first guy who made sort of the really big observation is this guy here at Vernon
Mound Castle, he's a neurophysiologist at Johns Hopkins and he published his idea in
1978 in sort of a 50-page essay which is somewhat famous and it's one of the most incredible
ideas of all time.
I put it up there with Dharan in terms of the significance of his observation.
He said the reason that all the regions of the neocortex look the same because they're
all doing the same intrinsic function.
They're all doing the same thing and what makes a visual area of vision and a language
area language and some of the sensory areas touch is what you connect it to.
So if you take a region of cortex and you connect it to an eye, you get vision.
If you take a region of cortex and you connect it to ears, you get hearing and that the brain
got big by just replicating the same thing.
He then said a cortical column which is a little bit under a square millimeter, I'll
just call it a square millimeter, but a little bit under a square millimeter contains all
the essential circuitry that you'll see everywhere.
And so a cortical column is the unit of replication and if you can understand what a cortical
column does, then you understand the whole thing.
You can visualize it like this.
You can say, okay, here's the neocortex and these are these columns.
Now they don't look like this.
You actually can't see them like this and not stacked up like this, but functionally
and anatomically one can argue this is the way it is and there's a few places in some
brains where you actually can see columns, but mostly it's not.
It was more like, hey, you won't see them, but they really do exist.
So now in a human, we have 150,000 of these things.
We have 150,000 copies of the same basic circuitry.
There's a corollary to what Bruno Malkowski also proposed, which I came up with.
I don't know if anyone ever pointed out, but if you actually believe what he said that
every column is doing the exact same thing, then by definition, every column must perform
the same functions that the entire neocortex does.
There's no other place for things to happen.
So if I'm going to have prediction occurring someplace in the brain, it's going to be occurring
every column.
If I'm going to learn sequences and be able to play back sequences, that's going to occur
in every column and so on.
But this is such a crazy idea that most neuroscientists really don't know what to do about it.
It's like a tired imagine, but that's what he proposed and it turned out to be true.
So I'm going to jump forward here.
We've done many, many years of research on this and we've been teasing apart different
aspects of how neurons work and how dendrites work and how synapses work and how these circuitries
in the neocortex work.
I'm going to skip all of that into something that happened three years ago.
So we had built up a base knowledge about a lot of things going on there, but three
years ago we had an insight which blew the whole thing open.
That insight started with this coffee cup.
I was literally in my office and I was playing with this coffee cup and I asked a very simple
question.
I said, am I touching this thing with my finger and as I move my finger around, I make predictions
about what it's going to feel and I said to myself, what does the cortex need to know
to predict what my finger is going to feel when I move it and touch the lip?
I can imagine.
I can imagine that feeling.
What does it take to know that?
I said, first of all, it has to know that it's holding a coffee cup because different
objects really did different predictions.
The second thing it needs to know, it needs to know where the location of my finger is
in the reference frame of the coffee cup, relative to the coffee cup.
It doesn't matter where the coffee cup is to me, its orientation doesn't matter, but
I have to know where my finger is in the reference frame of the coffee cup.
I need to know where it is.
I need to know where it will be after I execute a movement.
I'm going to execute a movement and while I'm executing it, the brain has to predict
where the new location will be and then, based on the model of the coffee cup, it can predict
what it's going to sense.
I very quickly realized that this is a universal property in the cortex and that every part
of your skin, when I'm holding this with my hand like this, every part of my body is
predicting what it's going to sense as it moves over this coffee cup and every part has
to know where it is in the reference frame of the coffee cup.
It has some sense of location in the objects it's manipulating.
This was a new idea.
We then ran with this and we published our first paper on this in 2017 and we explained
a lot of the detailed mechanisms of what we think is going on here.
I'll give you just the highlights of it.
You have this your hand and then your finger touching this cup and that typically goes
into layer four and this is the primary input layer in any region and that's your sense
feature.
There's this other very major connection between these cells in layer six and layer four which
is well documented and it has a certain type of effect on layer four.
It's indicated by blue here and we propose that this is representing the location relative
to the object.
Now we have two things here, the sensation and the location relative to the object.
Then we can integrate over time and form a representation of what the object itself
is.
If you think about this is going to represent the cells here, what their activity is going
to represent the coffee cup, these cells are going to be changing based on both the sensory
input and where it is in the cup and you can essentially integrate over time and build
a model of a cup.
Really a model of a cup, the morphology of the cup is like what features are at locations
and your brain has to know this.
We detailed the actual mechanism of how the neurons do this in quite detail.
I'm not going to go through that today.
I'll touch on a little bit later.
We then say well you got multiple columns going on here and so imagine you have different
parts of your skin touching the cup at the same time.
If you just have one finger you have to, in order to either learn the cup or infer the
cup you have to move the finger up, imagine you're reaching into a dark box and you're
trying to recognize what this is.
You have to move your finger to do that.
But here if you're reaching and I grab it with my hand at once I don't have to do that.
I can recognize a cup with one grasp and the reason that is is because there's these long
range connections in this upper layer here, layer two, three, that go across large areas
of the neocortex and these represent a voting mechanism.
So each column is getting some different input, has a guess as to what it might be feeling.
It doesn't really know but they vote together and they settle on what the only thing that's
copacetic with the locations and the senses they have.
So we model this, we show how this works.
We then, you can make the same argument that's going on in all your senses.
You might think vision is different but it's not.
The retina is the best way to think about the retina.
It's just a topological array of sensors just like your skin is a topological array of sensors.
And each column in the primary visual cortex is looking at a small part of the visual object.
Nobody looks at the whole thing.
And so like each part of the visual cortex is like looking through a little straw just
like it's like a fingertip.
And if they had to look through a straw I have to move the straw around to see what I'm
looking at but if I have all those columns active at once bingo I recognize the object.
So we walk through all the details of this but there's a big question.
How is it possible for neurons to establish a reference frame of an object that doesn't
even know what it is and then know where it is on that object?
How could that be done with real neurons?
And so that was, we proposed in this paper where to find the answer and that proposal
turned out to be correct.
So now we're going to skip to that.
It turns out that there are, is a very well studied thing in the brain called the enterional
cortex which is not part of the enterional cortex, it's part of the old brain.
And it has, it creates reference frames.
And what we propose is that the cells, the cell types that revolved a long time ago in
the enterional cortex are now existing in the enterional cortex.
So let me just tell you about grids.
These things are called grid cells.
You might have heard of them.
They're very famous.
They were first discovered by the Moser team in 2005.
And what they do is they create reference frames for an environment.
It's been studied in rats mostly.
And blue here is the enterional cortex.
But we have it too.
You and I have a small enterional cortex and it has these grid cells in it.
And what it does when I mean by an environment is like this room.
This room is an environment.
So my grid cells right now have established a reference frame in this room.
And their activity tells me where I am in the room.
Even if I close my eyes and I walk over here, I have a sense that I'm in a different location
in the room.
I know I've moved.
I know my, the old spot was over there.
I know I'm a little bit closer to this wall, further from that wall.
And so even without any sensory input, there's an internal sort of system for tracking where
you are in this room.
And that's what's happening.
So they represent, they create this reference frame.
They represent the location of the body in the room or the environment.
And this is useful for building maps of rooms, like where are the things in the room?
And for navigation, like how far am I from that door?
And how many steps would I have to take to get there?
The grid cells provide a metric space for doing this.
And this evolved in the old part of the brain for navigation, which was one of the first
things the animals had to do when they started moving around the world.
