Well, it gives me great pleasure today to welcome to Microsoft Research, Subutai and
Jeff Hawkins.
Subutai Ahmed and Jeff Hawkins have been very gracious to come down all the way and make
a very precise visit here.
I think if I start introducing them, we will be here for a long time and go through going
through all their accomplishments, but I will just touch upon the main points starting with
Jeff.
And Jeff has had a lifelong interest in neuroscience.
He created NewMentor and is focused on neurocortical theory.
I think you all probably know that he invented the Palm Pilot, which is just incredibly cool.
And ever since that time, he has been focusing on neuroscience and doing great things here.
And in 2002, he founded the Redwood Neuroscience Institute, where he served as director for
about three years.
And we are going to be incredibly honored to hear about his thoughts on neuroscience.
And then we have Subutai, who is the vice president of research at NewMentor.
And he's going to talk to us today about deep learning, vision, and he has been an entrepreneur
and his detailed theory of the neurocortex.
He holds a PhD in computer science from UIUC, and we are going to have lots of fun.
So thank you very much for being here.
All right, great.
Thanks, Dave.
Well, I hope we have fun.
So we always try to have fun.
Just a couple of words about how this meeting came about.
Subutai and I were in Seattle back in December.
We spent a day at the Allen Brain Institute where we gave a talk.
And at the end of that day, through a mutual acquaintance, we came over here to Microsoft
and had dinner with Sacha Nadella and Eric Harwitz and a few other people just to talk
about what's going on in brain theory.
And after that dinner, we said, hey, maybe it would make sense to come and talk about
our work here at Microsoft Research.
So that's the genesis of why we're here.
And so let's just jump right into it.
The title of our talk is the Thousand Brain State of Intelligence, a framework for understanding
the neocortex and building intelligent machines.
The way this is going to work, I'm going to talk for half the talk, and Subutai is going
to talk to the other half of the talk, so you're going to hear both of us.
So just a word about Nementa.
Nementa is a small company.
We're in Redwood City, Northern California.
And we've been around for about 14 years.
We have about 10 employees.
The way to think about it, just think about it as a research lab.
That's what we are.
We're a research lab.
It's a somewhat independent research lab.
And we have a scientific mission.
Our scientific mission is to reverse engineer the neocortex.
And I'm going to talk about that.
Our goal there is a biologically accurate theory.
This is a biological research mission.
This is not to look for inspiration about how the brain works.
We're not interested in theories inspired by the brain.
We really want to understand how the neurons in the brain work.
We test our theories via empirical data and simulation.
We don't do experimental work ourselves, but we do that with a collaboration of others
in published data.
And everything we do is open and published.
So everything I'm going to present here today has been published in peer review journals.
A few exceptions that haven't been published yet, but we don't hold anything back and there's
no secrets of what we do.
We have a second mission, which is really second in both in priority.
And that is the following, is that to take what we've learned from neocortical theory
and apply it to AI.
Now when I got interested in this field almost 40 years ago, I felt immediately back then
that if we're ever going to build truly intelligent machines, we have to understand how the brain
works.
And I felt that this was really the path there.
I still believe that.
So for the last three years at Nementia, we have done almost nothing on this second mission.
And the reason is because we were having so much success on the first mission.
And we put all that aside just to focus on this stuff.
I'm going to tell you about that.
But in the last few months, Subotai has been reengaging on the machine learning side of
our mission statement.
And he's going to talk about the recent progress we've started to make there.
Okay, so that's who we are.
If just to remind you, the neocortex is about 75% of a human brain by area.
And the other 25% are things that are like the autonomic nervous system, controlling
heart rate and breathing, various basic behaviors such as reflex reactions or even things like
walking and running or controlled by your brain.
Your emotions are in the old brain.
But the neocortex dominates our brain and it's the organ of intelligence.
So anything you think about, anywhere from our perceptions to language of all different
types, mathematics, engineering, science, art, literature, everything that you guys
are paid to do here comes out of your neocortex.
And that's my neocortex is speaking and yours is listening.
So that's the organ we want to understand.
The first question you might think about is what does the neocortex do?
And this is, it took me really a while to totally understand this completely.
Some people think, oh, I'll get some inputs from the sensors and then you act.
That's not really true.
What the neocortex does is it builds a model of the world.
So when you're born, that structure is there, but it really doesn't know anything.
And you have to learn a model of the world.
And your model of the world is extremely complex and rich.
There are tens of thousands of objects you know in the world, you know how they look
and how they feel and how they sound.
You know where these objects are located and how they interact with one another.
Objects have behaviors and you have to learn those too.
So this, my smartphone is an object that has behaviors.
It has all these complex behaviors as I manipulate it, things change on it.
That's all stored in the neocortex.
Even simple things like a door in this room has the behaviors.
It opens, it handles, learns and so on.
You have to learn all that stuff.
The neocortex learns both physical and abstract things.
So you can literally learn how a coffee cup is and what it looks like and how it feels.
But you also can learn concepts related to something like democracy or something like
that and things you've never been able to experience before.
But what it builds is a very complex model of the world.
And why does it do that?
The advantage of this from an evolutionary point of view is it's a predictive model,
meaning it's constantly predicting what's going to happen next in the world.
It's constantly predicting what you're going to see and what you're going to feel, what
you're going to hear.
You're not aware of most of those predictions, but they're happening.
And because it's a predictive model and it's this very complex model of the world, you
can use it to generate behaviors.
So you may sit in this room and listen to me not really doing anything for a while,
but I'm changing your model of the world slightly through this talk.
And later you might behave differently based on that model.
So the question is, how is this structure, which fits in your head, basically learn this
very complex model of the world?
Now if you were to take this out of your head and iron it flat, it'd be about this big.
It's about the size, it's about 1500 square centimeters, 15 inches on a side.
It's just a little bit thicker than this, it's about two and a half millimeters thick.
And so if you could do this and you look at the surface of it, there's no demarcations.
You can't see what anything looks, it's all like one uniform sheet.
And but we do know it's divided in the regions, or functional regions.
And they're in a human, they don't really know, but the estimate's a little bit over
100 different regions that you're neocortical to divide into.
And there are regions that are responsible for vision and hearing and touch and language
and so on, and they're connected together through the white matter in this very complex
way.
Okay, so if you were, if I'm just going to show you here, here I've highlighted a few
of these.
So there's a bunch of visual regions in the back of your brain here.
There's some auditory regions where these primary, where this is where the sensory input
comes into.
So your eyes project to the back of your head, your ears project to the tumble lobes, your
body projects your sensory, your touch, somatosensors touch to this area across the top like that.
And the story that's told to how this works, this is a conventional view, which you can
already guess is really not correct at all.
But the way this classically has been viewed is you have something like your eye and you
have a retina, and it projects to this first region back here, and that somehow extracts
simple features, and then that projects to the next region which extracts more complex
features.
So in the brain you do this three or four steps, and then all of a sudden you have cells that
represent entire objects.
So it's sort of a feature extraction in a hierarchy sort of paradigm.
It's presumed something similar is happening in the other sensory modalities, also not
at all clear how, because you don't have this regular topology on your skin as you do in
the retina.
But the same idea is supposedly happening, and then somehow there's some multimodal objects
occurring in all these other areas that really people don't really understand what they're
doing at all.
So we have somewhat of an idea what's going on in these primary sensory regions, but not
really very well, and then somehow all this other stuff is happening up there.
And so that's the story that's told in a classic view.
If you get a neuroscience textbook, it'll talk about that.
Here's the reality.
Here's a picture of, we can't do this for humans, but this is a primate, this is a macaque
monkey.
This is a very famous picture in neuroscience, if you don't know that.
This came out in 1991 by these two scientists, Feldman and Vanessa.
And these rectangles here are regions of the monkeys in your cortex.
Smaller than ours, but basically the same idea.
And so these are all these different regions, and each one of these lines here represents
millions of nerve fibers connecting them in various ways.
And this thing is really, really crazy complicated, and it doesn't look simple like that thing
up there.
And we can make a few observations about this.
The vast majority of the connections between regions here are not hierarchical at all.
They go all over the place.
So 40% of all possible connections between regions exist, and many regions get input
from 10 or more other regions.
And since this diagram was made 30 years ago, we now know there's even far more connections
that they missed that are going across from all different places.
So in this diagram, you have the touch sensors on the left and the vision regions on the right,
and they're sort of presented as a hierarchy, but it's not really like that at all.
This is what, our brains are like this, but even more complicated.
So somehow this is the organ of intelligence, and we want to understand all this, which
seems quite daunting.
So the next thing we can do is look at the detailed circuitry in the neocortex.
This is within the two and a half millimeter thickness of the neocortex, and see what the
circuitry looks like in there.
And this has been studied for well over 120 years now.
These pictures are made by Cajal back in 1899.
This is the two and a half millimeter thickness.
This is the top of the, towards the skull and towards the center of the brain here.
And what they're showing in here back in those days, we'd see there's these cell types,
these individual cell bodies, and you can see there's sort of a stratification going
on.
And then here they're showing the axons and the dendrites, these are the processes that
come out of the cell body that connect to other neurons, and you can see these are predominantly
vertical.
So there are literally, I'm not joking, tens of thousands of papers have been published
on the architecture in the neocortex that's represented here first back in the 1800s.
Here's a picture that I made, which is showing some of the dominant connections between here.
