model in brains.
And in the neuron model that we use, I didn't talk about that.
Subitite will talk about that.
We model neurons quite differently than people at the point neurons are used in artificial
neural networks.
Real neurons don't work like that.
We're going to talk about this, but some of these properties of real neurons are essential
for continuous and online learning.
And Subitite's going to talk about that.
So not that you were going to applaud, but if you were, you can hold it.
And now I'm going to switch.
You have a question?
Yeah.
Do you describe this kind of flat set of sensory motor grounded columns?
I didn't say it was flat.
I said it's mostly non-hierarchical.
I've been hearing it so far.
Then you make these hints of being hierarchical.
So I'm wondering where that hierarchy comes from and is like a conceptual hierarchical
column also grounded in sensory motory.
All right.
So you got the idea that every column is doing the same thing, right?
In reality, if you look at the visual regions in the neocortex, the first three visual regions,
V1, V2, and V4, all receive direct input from the retina.
It's not just going into V1.
It's projecting multiple levels up, but not to all levels.
So one of the things that's going on there is that these different regions here actually
are going to be modeling objects at different spatial sizes on the retina.
So if I had the smallest possible thing I could see, like the smallest print that I
could read, I'm telling you that's being recognized in V1.
Most people would be very surprised to hear that.
Now in addition to that projecting over multiple regions, there is convergence from V1 to V2
and from V2 to V4.
So there's both hierarchy and non-hierarchy going on at the same time.
We don't have a detailed model of how the hierarchical composition works yet.
So fine, but that's what the reality of what it looks like.
So it's not completely flat.
It's definitely not flat.
But it's definitely a lot flatter than most people think.
And very, very few people would think that even in these primary regions and the secondary
regions of somatosentric cortex, that real object recognition is going on.
I'll give you a couple of data points you might find interesting.
In a mouse, and mice can see pretty interesting.
They can do a lot of interesting manipulation and so on.
Mice really have only V1.
They have almost no V2.
Almost all the vision occurs in the primary visual region.
And in humans and monkeys, if you take the monkey, like the macaque I talked about earlier,
25% of the entire neocortex in the monkey is V1 and V2.
These regions are huge, and all the other regions are very much smaller.
And that, too, tells us that most of what we know about vision is occurring in these
lower regions here.
So it's just moving this idea that somehow you've got these feature extractions going
at some big thing up here.
It's just the opposite.
The big stuff is happening down here.
And then there's this convergence as you go up here, and there's more high level concepts.
We don't really understand exactly how that all has formed.
Yeah?
It seems that the success of all of this is hinges on the ability of all these motorists
to actually do different hypotheses a little bit differently.
Yeah.
Do you sense that variability is just an after-effect of the topological differences of the brain,
or is actually there's an arbitrary that says, you must be different?
Make sure I understand the question.
Are you saying that those differences, or is that genetic, or is it learned?
Part of the differences is managed through a higher level of process, or actually they're
just a consequence of the brain being in a cell.
Well, let me try to answer that question.
First of all, the basic theory says the differences are really primarily just where they are and
what they're getting input from, okay?
Much of that is genetically determined.
At birth, you have this structure here like that, and there's also, at birth, there are
differences.
I mentioned that.
There are differences between these regions.
So evolution has figured out that, you know, in some regions I might want a little bit
more of this cell.
At birth, you have these differences.
But primarily, it's just where they are and what the topological input is.
Now, the system is very flexible.
So if you were born without a retina, or you're just blind, generally blind, these regions
don't atrophy.
It's surprising what happens is they get inverted, and they start coming this way to them, and
they actually operate in backwards.
So there's a lot of, like, learning flexibility going on here, but nobody's in charge.
Maybe I didn't understand your question.
No, no, no.
Because it would be that, then it's just not enough to put all these columns together.
Then there's a successful physical structure that led to this thing being revised.
But it's not as, it's not as, it's not precise at all.
It's like you can hook these things up almost anyway, it'll work.
The question is, if you hook it up a little bit differently, you might get a better result.
So for example, let me give you another example.
In normal humans, the size of V1, the area of V1, one of the largest regions in the brain,
in normal humans it varies by a factor of three.
Now, presumably, the people, what I've read is the people who have larger V1s are better
at high acuity, low, you know, if I was really working with very small things, I'd be better
at that.
But the people who don't, they're not as good as that.
They both see, they all think they're normal, life goes on, but some are going to be a little
bit better than some others than others.
So there's a hell of a lot of flexibility in this system, and there's all kinds of
right, you know, trauma, you've knocked some of these things out, everything keeps working,
you rewire stuff, they keep working, one guy at Sargon Caser rewired the ferret's brain
and it kept working, you know, so it's, you know, yeah, you can tune it and make it better,
but it's kind of robust just the way you do it.
Yeah.
So every column has a sensory input and a motor output.
Yeah.
Well, it has an input, it's not all sensory, right, it could be from other columns.
Right.
But are they usually related, for example, is the input that comes from the tip of my
finger coming to a place where the motor output is?
Yes, yes, yes, that's right.
So in this case, in the case of the finger, literally there's a part, the part that's
getting input from the fingertip projects part back down to the spinal cord, which would
be most likely connected to the muscles that would eventually move the finger.
In the retina, it's a little different because the retina moves all at once.
And so in the retina, all the columns in the visual cortex project to this one thing called
the spur of the colliculus, which moves the eye en masse.
So there's less of a topology there, because I can't move my, you know, my eyes differently
in different parts of my eyes, in different ways.
But that's certainly true with the somatosensory system, there's a topological arrangement
to that.
Yes, over there.
This is the only half to talk to, you know, I'm just reminding you.
I'm going to take this one, the next question, then I'm going to let Supitai go.
Aren't the individual columns really topologically separated, or is it just the convenience that
we isolate?
It's mostly a convenience.
Remember this picture here?
I said this is not what it really looks like.
You don't see this, but there's a lot of evidence that as you, if you were to move a probe across
the cortex, even though you don't see these columns, there's a lot of evidence that there
is a sort of a physiological break, not a physical break.
You can't see a dividing line, but there is a physiological break between what this section
here represents and what this section here represents.
And so that's been documented.
And there's a few places like in the rodent somatocentric cortex, they have a very special,
their whiskers are a very special organ, it's an active sensing organ, it's almost like
our fingers and so on, rats and mice move their whiskers in an active way.
And in the barrel cortex, they call it, in the rodent, you actually literally do see
columns.
There's one column per whisker.
It's a direct evidence that this is what's going on, that the whisker is like a fingertip,
I mean rats has an array of whiskers and it's got an array of columns and those you can
see.
But mostly it's a physiological change going across the surface of the cortex.
So it's real, it's not just one continuous thing, but you don't see it physically, mostly.
What about topologically, are there connections between the neighboring things?
In the cortex, and I might end up with this, maybe we can talk about it later, in the cortex
there's really only two sets of layers of cells that project across columns broadly.
And I mentioned that, those are both voting layers, remember I said there's two reference
frames, they're both voting.
So one of the cell types in layer five is the long range projections and one of the cell
types in layer two, three is the long range connections and those guys are all voting
and trying to, because local columns will typically be sensing the same thing.
So within some area here, these guys are all sensing the same thing, so this propagation
of like, hey what are we all seeing happens in some broader area, and so you see those
connections spread over this, but as I said, most circuitry is within a column.
Okay, I'm going to end it right there, and subitide is going to pick up, and we're here
all day so if people want to talk about this longer you can do it.
Oh, now you're going to switch presentations there.
Well, as Jeff said, we've been really focused on the neuroscience for a long time and recently
we started re-engaging on here and my talk's going to be a little bit different, I'm going
to focus on a couple of aspects of what we're doing in here and the basic idea here is,
how can we take what we've learned from the neuroscience and from the neocortex and apply
them to practical systems in a way that we can improve some of the shortcomings and maybe
improve some of the current techniques.
So my talk's going to focus on a couple of different fundamental areas, so Jeff didn't
touch on these directly, but a lot of these are underlie the theories that we're working
on.
So the first area is robustness, which is a pretty key area, and as we discussed the
brain is remarkably robust and resilient to noise from the outside, internal faults and
all sorts of things.
And what we think is that the way that the brain represents information using sparse
patterns of activity is pretty critical in achieving this robustness.
So I'm going to talk about exactly how we think about that and then what we've done
very recently is incorporate its sparse city into deep learning networks in a way that
mimics what we think is going on in the brain and I'll show you some of the results from
that.
The next two are more focused on the learning aspects and I'm going to be talking about continuous
learning and unsupervised learning, these are big research areas in machine learning
as well as in neuroscience, and it turns out that these two are actually handled in
a very similar way in the brain, and it's really the same mechanisms and operations
that lead to both.
And so this is actually really one topic, not two.
And what we think is going on here, in order to really explain that, I'm going to dive
into a little bit more detail about how biological neurons work and how they operate on their
inputs and how they learn.
Although we haven't implemented this in the context of deep learning networks, we do have
some results on real-world data sets, so I'll show you how this concept applies there as
well.
Okay, so let's dive into sparsity and robustness.
So this is a picture of a pyramidal neuron.
This is the most common type of neuron in your neocortex.
Paramidal neurons have thousands of synapses, anywhere from 3,000, actually some places
up to 30,000 synapses.
And what's remarkable is that what's shown here is the dendritic tree, where all the
