when this flow of ions happens.
And that is intrinsically related to the electricity
generation at the world.
And so I would think if the biology doesn't take that
as a mechanism, it doesn't go well with Darwin's evolution.
And we know the evolution is just
biology will take any cues to get it better to survive,
to repair, and to evolve.
So that makes me believe this is fundamental mechanism.
Although we focus on healing, but I
think many are the aspect of life.
It would be hard to imagine that the life doesn't really,
while you ignore this intrinsic aspect.
So I guess if we go back to when you entered the field,
and this might be more of a general question,
but how would you describe the state of the field then
in terms of the major thinking in the field
or the experiments that were being worked on,
or just even the excitement around bioelectricity?
I guess probably this field is like many other fields that sometimes
it seems it developed quite fast and well.
And sometimes you need to overcome many hurdles,
like those ideas were already well established in the field
and to get people to look into this direction.
And sometimes I'm quite optimistic.
And sometimes I'm a little bit skeptical
that it might take time for people to appreciate this mechanism.
So specifically to the wound healing field,
and I think people tried to use electro-stimulation
to enhance wound healing long time ago
and with many different approach.
And the mis-concept is that you stick electro there
and then you would stimulate the wound to heal.
But the biology itself is far more complicated than that.
So I think one of the argument supporting you
using electro-stimulation healing or regeneration is that it's cheap
and a few hundred dollars and you can stimulate the wound to heal.
I think we need to think carefully about that statement.
Nowadays we know that if you develop a drug,
you need millions and millions of dollars to develop,
to understand what is really happening behind the biology system
about this chemical.
So if we just want to spend a few,
much, much less amount of money and develop effective therapy,
that is not right.
And also because electro-stimulation is so easy to implement
in clinical context,
although not correctly in most of the case,
but people publish different results and some say,
well, this is a magic treatment and the wound never healed
or stayed there for many years and after stimulation healed.
And some people say, well, this doesn't really have any effect.
So if you think about the wound complexity and this is quite,
I think this is quite understandable,
the wound is geologically complex,
chemically complex and physiologically complex.
And this is kind of three-dimensional volume conduct.
So when we understand the electricity,
we always have metal wires and the electricity flowing from one side
in direct direction to the other side.
But if you're thinking about the 3D-conducting media,
the electricity go every direction.
So, and this is a much less wound-stirred
and it's very difficult to study.
So I think the promise is there,
but at the same time, the community and the society need to understand that
this is a new type of therapy and the funding agency
needs to spend time and money and effort rather than just think that,
oh, this is a magic thing, so you stick the electrode there and the wound heals.
Magically, you only spend a few hundred dollars and the magic stuff will happen.
But we start to gradually see people,
well, the funding bodies are willing to,
well, it becomes more willing to invest more.
But I would think there's still not, maybe, enough.
So I think part of what you're saying is that initially,
when people started understanding that electrical currents could heal wounds,
they thought there's some magic formula here
where if you just apply electricity, it's going to heal.
But a lot of your work is involved in understanding
how these electrical signals heal the wounds
and it's a lot more complex than simply applying electricity.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And as Mike's work already shows that
this electricity carried by ions, the charge,
because the charge carrier in biology is ions.
And the ions, we have so many different types of ions like sodium, potassium,
calcium and chloride, all those things, and they can change.
And they are, the biology system itself
are trying to control it in many ways,
use ion channels and pumps and tight junctions.
So the equivalent would be the battery, the resistors and transistors.
And so this biological electronics need to be understood first
before we really try to manipulate it.
But wow, so what is the advance of the electronics?
And as Mike is leading the way by electronics
and I think we will get much better understanding of the bioelectricity itself.
I think bioelectricity, the name is being punished somehow by charlatanism.
Some magic things happens and the dead body and the move.
And there are some signs in it, but it's more than that.
And it's like Michael Faraday many years ago showed this electricity and magnetism
somehow connected by this swirling needle with a torch.
And you start thinking about that,
how can you actually make those things work together as a system?
And the biology found a way, and as Mike leading the way to understand this,
the biology behind it, and not only for development of biology,
but also offers a kind of complete new understanding of other aspects of biology,
including wound healing and regeneration.
I'm interested in talking about other prior work and all of that.
What's your take on some of Becker's papers?
So Robert Becker, he made some pretty striking claims about the rat limb regeneration
and things like that.
What's your take on all of that?
And he had quite a different model actually, of how it worked.
What do you think about that?
I think, yeah, Becker's work is pioneering and also,
I think it's quite important, it's kind of like somehow part of the foundation of our work now.
But as I said, that some of the understanding may not be as simple or as accurate
as we hope, hope for, wish for, although, so I think this need to go into direct,
well, in parallel direction.
First is to apply it as a Becker's work, and the other thing is trying to understand it,
and they're going in parallel.
I think at his time, the tools and the method, methodology, are probably not the yet to really make this.
Yeah, with that, we can understand, we can still try that.
And the many things in medicine is just trying to error.
So for example, you try something that works and that's fine.
Maybe if we understand it, that would be better, but if we don't understand it works, let's do it.
But nowadays, because we develop such a powerful mechanism about way or technology to understand
things like my way and other people are doing now more and more.
And I think we can understand more.
But I think for his early limb regeneration, the repair work,
what lacks over there is is mechanistic or well, understanding the also
a well controlled approach that is other people or other lab can easily reproduce
and develop in a more scientific direction.
And I think probably now it's a better time in that time.
And we know when we see this develop at that particular time, probably we don't have those
techniques or technology to understand or to get a better control.
On this point, who are some of the other scientists you drew inspiration from in the field
or you built your work upon?
I think this can go well for the person I actually met.
And I think Lionel Jeffy is certainly the one I still remember when I was kind of the
junior young postdoc in London and the other day we met and I always get so excited.
But about this work and he always say calm down and you need to really able to explain things
clearly and make other people excited.
So you become a scientist at the moment.
You are just a technician and you do a nice experiment.
You got nice result, but it's very difficult for them.
So this is one of the examples.
He's a pioneer of the next level of the new era of biorelectricity.
And he did really some pioneer work and I keep going back to read his papers.
So he's one and later on I met like Ken Robinson, Richard Nusseteli and also Richard Borgans.
And I think that all are contributing many important ways to this field,
including developing the technology to measure the electric field or any type of
electricity associated with biological specimens.
And then measured the electric field at different type of wound and kind of lay the
foundation of the future work.
And also there are the other people to show that the other ones moving pool and the heat.
He stopped working in this field anymore, but they are the first few among the first few people's
demonstrate that they are electricity in biological system.
And you can actually measure them.
You can map them.
And the second thing is that the cell do respond to such an electric field.
And the other ones, Claudia Sten.
And this is probably more relevant to what Mike has been doing in biological systems that
they use this modern technology to map or measure this electricity around the developing
embryos and then see how that relates with the developmental process.
So, and of course, Colin McKagan, John Forrest, and we're talking about this from the clinical
observation of the patient eyes, this swirling movement of the epicyclic layers in the cornea
during healing process.
And if this pattern is disrupted and the woman is not healing well,
and how this special movement pattern happens, there's many kind of hypothesis.
And one includes the electromagnetic guidance of the cell movement.
So, and as Mike mentioned about the burger's work,
I haven't met them, but I know the work.
So, this field's kind of, of course, you know, Mike's work is leading the way and I read his
paper again, again, trying to understand.
With my clinical background, I'm not very well known very well about genetics and molecular
biology.
So, I learned a lot of the molecular chemistry in genetics from his work.
So, those work are the foundation and keeps inspiring me and my lab to push this forward.
I'm curious.
Do you know who were the people working in bioelectricity before Lionel Jaffe's era?
As you said, Lionel Jaffe was sort of the new era in bioelectricity.
Yeah, and at the beginning, as I mentioned, that the
the bioelectricity, when it first emerged, it's like people see this magic effect in the
piece of tissue twitch and the piece of muscle contract and that, I mean, it will start to
move and even the cops move.
So, the sensation was there, but it's the real development didn't come as like Michael
Farad's discovery showing that this this need always attach at the start to move.
And Michael Farad's work actually revolutionized while leading to the
revolution in the revolutionized whole society.
Now we see it everywhere.
Without him, we would not be here.
And then James Clark Marx, well, he really connect this electricity with everyone, everything.
And as Einstein said, that James Clark Marx, well, is the giant.
He stand in the shoulder and develop the relative theory.
So those are also great people on the line, our hopes, human society move forward.
I kind of forgot what you asked.
No, no, no, that's fine.
I think that answers it.
I was curious who some of the pioneering scientists were before Lionel Jaffee.
