But I think you answered it.
Okay, yeah, more broad sense.
But in biology, there are many other, like Mike mentioned, more clean,
people like Becker and he's a clinician and tried many things.
But it's kind of hard that when people looks at
like more fundamental biochemistry, genetics, and so cell biology and
then, but now I think it's probably a good time that the bioelectricity
gets more connected with what traditional understanding of biology sell.
I mean, do you want to go through a few examples?
I mean, your work is really extremely impressive and very close.
I think maybe you're the closest to clinical application in this field.
And I'm just curious if you could go through a few, you know,
well, skin, cornea, all of the, like you've done some amazing things.
So like, what are some of your favorite stories so far that have come out of your lab?
Yeah, so this can go a little bit further in detail.
So when I, as I said, when I left London to University of Aberdeen
in very north of Scotland, and I was thinking that maybe after a few years,
and I finished my postdoc training, I went back to be a trauma surgeon again.
But I remember the first thing is the cell movement in the electric field.
It's so dramatic.
And that time when I talked to the people in the lab and I said,
we don't have a video recorder.
We don't have computer recorded.
And what I did is that I took a photo at a different time point,
like zero hour, one hour, two hour, and I print them out on the,
on the photo paper and compare them to see whether they move.
And the first experimental worked.
And I see the cell move directionally.
I was so excited.
So, and that kind of made me stay there a little bit longer.
And then we start to ask, well, at the wound, there are so many
mechanisms we accept that stimulate and guide the cell into the wound to heal.
So, now you say electricity and how important this is.
And there was, there was a postdoc in my lab here.
So we tried to make a wound and apply electric field across.
And I remember that time we stopped to have the video recorded.
We can see the wound edge move.
For example, this is one side of the wound.
The other side of the wound.
And he, what people normally do is to measure the area in the middle about the wound
and to see how the wound becomes smaller.
And she, after a few months, she never told me the result.
And I keep asking her and they tend out that she thought that I want to see the wound getting smaller.
But what she, her result is that when she applied electric field across the whole field
and the one side moving, the other side move away.
So the wound area didn't really become much smaller than the control
because the control wound actually moving in the heels.
So she was quite hesitant to tell me the result.
So I said, well, after this two or three months,
experimentally, I would like to see the result.
So she bring the video to me and I start to see this one side moving
on the guidance of the electric field, the other side being guided away.
And I said, wow.
So it looks like this isn't more important because at this experimental wound,
we have all other work except guidance cubes.
But applying this electric field, you override them.
So one side actually move away.
And this is more important than I thought.
So I said, well, this is not just make it go smaller, but they actually override.
The guidance magnets like injury stimulation, contact inhibition release,
the population pressure go into the wound, or the chemical release at the wound to attract the cell in.
So this is not just the one of the magnets.
It seems that it override in the being a predominant or master signal
guiding the cell into the wound, mobilize and guide the cell into the wound.
So that time I start to thinking about this.
This is more because at the wound, you have so many different chemicals,
like growth factors, you could have hundreds of them.
And if you add each of them there, you will see some sort of effect.
But none of them are able to really make this piece of tissue actually go away or in
as you change the guidance direction.
And then we ask the question whether the electricity causes such effect is physiological.
And we look into the literature and we see the measurement from Ken Robinson's lab
and Nussbaum's measurement and Richard Borgens' measurement.
And the measurement, I mean the field stress, are using that you can measure at the invulnerable wound.
So this physiological electric field are able to guide to have this overriding guidance effect.
So I start thinking, oh, maybe this is not just one of the mechanisms.
It could be a predominant or master signal to mobilize and guide the cell,
at least in the simple healing, wound healing model.
And we tested it in kind of like an organ culture system.
And this shows the absurdity of the same effect.
So that gets me more kind of excited.
We talked about the fundamental mechanism, but this experiment
made me thinking about this could be very important mechanism.
And then so this is kind of like a second discovery.
And at that time, nobody actually is able to use other guidance mechanisms
like chemotaxis or duotaxis or any other guidance could cause a massive cell movement.
So this is the other, I think, I remember well, what come out from the lab.
And then we started thinking about, okay, there are many genetic and molecular
mechanisms regulate the cell movement.
Does this electric field or electric guidance actually use those mechanisms or
or or intersect with those genetic and molecular mechanisms?
So I start to get in touch with like Peter Dubotis at the Johns Hopkins and Henry Bond at the UCSF
and a Joseph Panninger that time at the University of parental because they all
study this chemotactic effect and they use a molecular and genetic approach to see
how cells migrate directionally in chemical gradient.
So I'm trying to work with them to see.
And funny thing is that at the beginning where contact them about this electric field,
guidance cell migration, they are very skeptical and we're thinking, well, very electric field.
And all the other ones are weak small in Vienna and that time was in Scotland,
it's closer, closer in distance.
And they're trying to do similar experiments.
It's very hard to repeat because they are most of the lab members are trained in biochemistry
and molecular biology.
They are very, very good leading expert manipulate the chemicals.
But with electronic electronics is less is probably less familiar to them.
So in the lab, it's it's difficult to repeat.
But I said, well, I can come over to do the experiment in your lab.
And I went there and that we reproduce this electric guided cell movement.
And then we start to use a different model organism, like a dictastelium.
We knock out the genes.
And with new to the field in Henry Bond's lab, we block out certain signaling pathway.
And with with Joseph Panninger, we he has this expedition knock out the genes in
mice, and we can use this cell tissue to test and see how the cells actually sense or
transduce this electric signaling into cell directional response.
And that time we found out that the key molecules like the ps3 kinase
or p10 those like important intracellular signaling mechanisms kind of participate
in this electrical field guided cell migration, I mean, wound healing too.
So let's bring our with with their help.
And together with them, we start to understand more about this
important mediators or molecular mechanisms underline this electrical guided
cell tissue movement and wound healing.
So those are, I think, the early experiment I remember in the in the lab.
This is still bringing back a lot of
well, very good memories to working in different place and working with different people and
people start being very skeptical and later on becomes very, very
unsusastic.
And like Peter DeLautis, we're still working together trying to understand how this,
for example, one of the signals, one of the project work together is that the cells now are
in an environment.
They have a chemical environment, mechanical environment with Wolfgang Lucid and the
University of Maryland and also electrical environment and how the cell integrate them
and into a kind of cell behavior response.
Although we are able to understand them in separation one by one.
But the integration is a key.
I think we are not there yet.
But I think probably with this integrated approach, we eventually are able to combine
biochemical, biomechanical and bioelectrical together to see how cells are
collectively, well, make a collective decision and respond to such a diverse
environmental cues.
And we were talking about
mechanical mechanism and Donald Ingeberg is another person who inspired me.
And I remember we spoke at the meeting and he said,
don't keep going because at the beginning when he was working on mechanical things and
people were always wondering, well, the mechanical force out there, the cells always
get the chemicals and they bounce something and signaling and so respond.
When you're talking about mechanical, how do cell do it?
And so he's a big source of inspiration for me as well.
And what are some of the questions that you are exploring currently?
Yeah, so when I moved the lab to the U.S. from the U.K. and I was thinking
just kind of three directions I would like to pursue.
The first is that, I mean, we talk about the wound, we can measure the electric field.
So how the wound actually produces such an electric field and regulates it.
And we know that our tissue or the wound are composed by the cells and the cell form a tissue
and the cell have this ion channels and pumps and those ion channels, pumps together with the
type junction and the former biological, electrical circuit.
And this circuit actually generated this electricity and it come into being when the
barrier is broken down to change a long time and then when the wound healed it disappeared.
So a fundamental question would be how the wound actually produces and regulates such a signal
to best achieve wound healing. And so we're trying to see
whether we can find the what we call the molecular generator is like a little power plant in the
tissue that actually generates this electricity and in response to injury.
So this is the one direction and the other direction is that how the cell actually sends
such an electric field and this is a long-standing question and many people in the field are working
on that too. Because when I first see the cell movement I talked with a traditional electric
physiologist and very disappointed to me is that most people say oh no they won't do anything
because the field is so weak because if you need to induce action potential you need a much
large field, much stronger field and they don't do anything. But if you look at the video
of the cell movement and the wound healing process the cells certainly respond to it and
although as I said that working with Joseph Penninger, Henry Bond, Peter Davides we discover some of the
important molecule and genetic element but we were not we have not found a sensor yet.
So for example we can see light, light is electromagnetic waves and our retina detected
and we can start to see them so the cell sends it but for such a small DC nature electric field
we don't know what the sensor they are. We have some clue, we have some indications
and we found out some of the mediators but the sensor
have largely been elusive. We have so this is another direction we're trying to
to see whether we can we can eventually find the sensor but maybe sometimes I'm thinking about
Donald Ingevers say about how the cell sends the mechanical force and I remember one of his
words is that the whole cell is a sensor so maybe that's true. So this whole cell just sends it
as a whole unit it's not the traditional ways like we have a molecule and it has a ligand and
the sensor so the sensor could be more complicated in just a single molecule. It could be a set of
molecule, it could be the cell as a sensor but it was still as I said working with Peter Davoutis
and we're trying to manipulate genetically the molecule to see whether we can find the sensor.
So this second direction, the third direction is like working with Marko Rolandi and other
colleagues from Santa Cruz and the Rift-Izorov Clinician Scientist here at UC Davis and
together with Mike we're trying to see whether we can we can develop some treatment
to precisely regulate the wound electricity and deliver chemicals electronically to help
wound to heal. So this is another direction is that if we even if we don't understand fully
the mechanics how the cells sense the electric field, how the wound generally electric field
but who possibly can use it and develop technology to enhance the wound healing
well at the same time we're trying to gain more fundamental understanding so those are the three
directions my lab can see. You know one of my one of my favorite papers of yours is the one with us
I think the first author is Sun where you've got the the entire cells are going one way in
electric field and if you fragment them into pieces all the pieces are going the other way.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was incredible. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I remember this experiment was
conceived many years ago before we actually are able to do it. I remember I tried it with Henry
Bourne so this this was back in Aberdeen and when I saw paper about the fragment of cells
so where a fragment of cells means that the cell doesn't have nucleus just part of the
cytoplasma calmed down and this this this our biological significance to platelets is
such a kind of structure and if we now exosome those are membrane circled structure with a
little bit cytoplasma inside and what Mike mentioned about this is that when we are reading
