Well, thank you so much, Man, for taking the time.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for having me.
Yeah, we're excited to dig in.
And we can just get started.
So I know, Man, you started off with your working trauma
surgery as a physician.
So I'm curious, maybe if you can touch a bit on your background
and how you got interested in bioelectricity.
Yeah, this is a kind of a long story.
So I was trained as a trauma surgeon
in China after graduate from military medical school.
And I worked with one of the founders of maybe trauma
surgery in China, Professor Wang.
And that time is mainly under what
we call the blast injury.
It's like explosives and severe damage.
And to see how that caused damage
and how the tissue repair.
And then after that, I went to London
to work with Jeff Bernstock, a molecular biology
and biochemistry at the University College of London.
I still think I would go back to China
to continue my clinical work.
So I kind of tried to look around for a job,
look for a more project which is more kind of close
to our idea.
Sorry.
So I found Professor Colin McCake and John Forrest
at the University of Aberdeen.
And I went there.
And that time, Colin is working on tissue regeneration
of the central nervous system.
So he's using electric fields to guide neuron growths,
like neurotic growth.
And John Forrest was working on cornea wound healing.
So it's a kind of perfect combination for me looking back.
And I combined the electrical signaling together
with the wound healing research.
And it works well.
So I think I should avoid getting other people
So that's why it brings me to this electrical regulated wound
healing.
And at the beginning, we were only
trying to understand whether this is one of the factors
in healing of the wound.
But eventually, we found out that the electric signal
can override other guidance magnets.
And that kind of prompted me to think more.
Not this is only one mechanism, but could
be a predominant mechanism, maybe a conserved nation one.
If you look at the wound healing,
you think about the single cell molecules
plant or animals from salamanders and others lower
organisms to us as a human.
And we're all healed of the wound.
And what is the conserved key thing
is that the breakdown of the barrier of the inside and outside.
And the immediate effect is the communication
between the inside and outside.
And we know that the inside and outside of the animal
have this chemical gradient as well as an electrical gradient.
And so this electrical breakdown of the barrier
is the same mechanism for wound implant in single cell
and for all the animal species and to us as a human being.
So this electrical communication might
be the initial signal that telling the organism
that there's a breach of the barrier and we need to repair it.
And when the barrier recovers and this communication stops,
this wound electric current will stop.
So at that time, I'm thinking I probably
need to move to a bigger place to understand
the fundamental biology of it.
And then to use these mechanisms to help wound healing.
So that's kind of prompt me to move to University of California
of Davis.
And even before that, Mike and I knew each other's work.
And I think this really is a fundamental mechanism,
not only for wound healing, but as Mike showed for many,
for developmental biology, for cancer,
and for many other biology too.
So this is probably, I don't want to go too long,
but this is a short journey of why I get here.
That's fascinating.
Well, thank you for sharing that.
So we want to dive a bit into the history of the field.
And well, we certainly want to understand the history of the 1900s
and how the field has developed.
I know you've written a bit about some of the origins
of bioelectricity as well, going back to Galvani's days.
Could you touch a bit upon the origins of the field?
I think Mike is a much better person
to talk about the origin of bioelectricity.
So Mike, maybe.
Yeah, I guess maybe to put it another way,
as you were developing your work in wound healing,
because I think actually your work in wound healing
is quite unique.
It's very different from what we do.
And it's very different from what other developmental biologists
who do bioelectricity in the field do.
And you can talk about what are the inspirations?
As you think about the bigger questions of how is wound healing?
How is it controlled?
What are the evolutionary?
Do the different types of wound healing
that you find, for example, in amphibia and mammals and so on,
are they the same?
Are they different?
What kind of background in that field informs your thought?
How do you think about these things?
Yeah, so if we're talking about general wound healing
in human skin or mammalian skin, and this actually went back
almost 200 years ago about this newborn remound,
a German physiologist, he was the founder of the modern
electrophysiology.
He actually measured action potential.
And that time, it's not a single axon action potential,
but it's a bundle of axon together.
And if you stimulate one end, the action potential
will propagate to the other end.
So he is the first one to discover that.
But almost at the same time, he's trying to see
whether there's any current flowing in and out
of the skin, bridge, or wound.
And he found that.
And so it is not a new discovery.
If we go back to Gavani's time, and indeed,
those kind of the caught nerve and a piece of frog skin,
and at the wound edge, there would
be this wound electric current.
And Gavani used this as a source.
But at that time, the understanding is very limited.
So he thinks that this animal electricity
is kind of an imaginary vitalism.
But now we understand it's like blocks of irons.
And actually, the tissue cells pumping irons
and generate and maintain this electric current.
So if we go back, and you can see that although the understanding
is not really as correct as we see it now,
but the phenomena or the discovery or observation
were there, they found out that wherever you bridge
an organism, there will be a kind of flux of irons.
And eventually, we see this as a kind of flux of specific irons.
This is a kind of different from the electricity we use every day
in our electronics and in our appliance.
That's the electricity generated by the power plant.
And actually, the drive of the electron
flows through the conductive metals.
But in human biology, more flux of irons are different,
like sodium potassium.
So while the understanding getting more and more detailed
scientific, but the observation of the electricity
in wound at wound actually went back to hundreds of years ago.
And as Mike just mentioned, if we look at the wound of single cell,
if we have a single cell, if you punch a hole,
do we have electricity there at the hole?
The wound, the primitive wound.
And there are, we measure them, and other people measure it too.
So early days, probably last century,
about nearly 100 years ago, people used this big axons.
They make a cut, and they can measure this injury current
flowing out and in.
And we know now because you have a membrane potential,
and you cut it, and you can measure this current flowing in and out
while this flux of iron in and out.
And this is a genuine injury current.
And with a small, what was like a frog with frog skin
and many other type of skin.
And if you make a wound, this flux of irons happened.
And this would generate electricity.
And now to human beings, this electricity
generates more or less in the same principle.
But if you look at the, so this is the question
I go back to early days where I started
to work with Colin McCake and John Forrester.
And I'm always wondering, is this true?
And many other people question about electricity.
What is it?
And how it would happen at a wound?
Is it really important?
And I kept asking myself too.
But if you look at the single organism,
evolved multi-cellular organism.
And to us, there's a barrier inside and outside, always there.
And if the initial bridge to the single cell membrane
happened, and the cell either re-sealed or the cell will die.
And so this would be a cue or signal that happens.
So ancient in biology.
And I think biology, the evolution
would take the cues from the nation
and say, oh, we're developed by mechanism
to use this signal to develop, to heal.
And so the biology can evolve when the complex organisms
originate.
So although specifically with skin wound or the epicyclic wound,
we have this electrical signal happens.
But if you go back to the evolution
to the very start of the life, and this bridge
of the membrane or the barrier happened at the same time
