Mine does.
That's why it's actually a thing that I think is very important to me personally.
Got you.
Because due to my, well, do you want me to do that?
Please go ahead.
Okay, well, due to my transhumanist roots, and not even roots, due to my transhumanist
philosophy, I've long had to consider what I would consider sentient.
Like my decision theory, I have to take into account would this decision theory still work
if I was running against copies of myself?
And so one of the things, one of the first things you think about is,
well, how do I treat beings who are not carbon based and look like humans?
You know, what if I become uploaded into a computer?
I do not want my rights taken away.
So when I was contemplating moral theories, one of my founding bedrock principles is that
intellectual complexity does matter.
And it's probably the only thing that matters.
You're so black and white.
In briefness, just so I can help coordinate where I want to go with this.
Because what is the moral importance of a tereshiva, for example,
someone who's in a coma and doesn't have a brain anymore?
I mean, she's human shaped.
And technically has a human brain.
And technically, well, I mean, the little bits of it, most of it was gone.
But she has no moral status.
You can kill her and actually probably be a good thing to kill her,
because then she's not draining resources and giving her parents false hope.
She is nowhere near the level of even a fish.
She's certainly not up to the level of a dog.
Like a dog is more important than tereshiva.
I'm not referring to moral consideration, because while I think that intellectual
complexity and ability is an important thing,
I certainly don't think it's the only important thing.
What else would you consider important?
Really quick, I just want to throw my head in with what Katrina said.
And that's why I wanted to clarify.
So raising examples of how smart some animals are sometimes,
to me, is sort of beside the point, because my position on the ethical status of animals
doesn't hinge on how smart they are.
If it did, that has all kinds of sort of weird consequences if you take it and run with it.
But so that's it.
It's like, to me, it's interesting.
Like when Aniyash asked you how stupid would a baby have to be?
Before it doesn't matter, right?
So yeah, that's one of the things that you can kind of get into.
That brings me up to the question of how do you feel about abortion?
That is one of the things I considered.
Should I be OK with abortion and why or why not?
And I do not consider a fetus a person because it is not yet mentally complex.
I have an answer to that that I think both of you will hate.
So give me just one second.
I wanted to say that, for me, the intellectual capacity of animals is
interesting and important to look at just as far as what can they do and that sort of thing.
And it might have some weight as far as how much moral weight they have.
It might have some more, what am I trying to say, heaviness.
You know what I'm trying to say?
It might be a larger part of the equation then.
But I don't think it certainly shouldn't be the only thing that matters.
Not certainly the only thing that matters.
So what else matters?
Well, before we get into that, my thing on abortion, I am of the position that
abortions are a bummer whenever they happen, right?
I'm not pro-abortion.
So that's right.
I knew that that would get a scoff out of somebody.
There are a few people who are pro-abortion.
I'm not going out there encouraging people to get pregnant so that they can abort the fetuses.
Right, and I guess I think some people aren't necessarily pro-abortion,
but to me it's a bummer because you have an actual instantiated possibility,
an individual that whatever preconception was so close to not existing that it didn't even
match. The odds of them existing were like nothing, right?
The random shuffle of genes.
So then you've got that instantiation ready to go and in progress.
Every month when there's menstrual cycle, you get that fucking every time a guy comes.
There could have been a life created from that.
Well, by that thinking, I mean you commit a potential holocaust every time you scratch
your nose because your nose could be cloned into a whole new you, right?
Exactly.
But I mean that you have the actual fertilized human ready to go.
It's no longer you. It's a recombinance.
Well, to the people who would say, oh, it's not human or oh, it's not alive,
it's definitely both of those things.
Two human parents.
I've never contested that.
I've always simply said it is not mentally complex enough to be a person.
Yes, that said, I am very pro-choice to the extent that the weight of the fertilized egg,
embryo, whatever stage you want to have it at, is so low as to be outweighed by the
preferences of a parent or a potential parent, certainly the host, right?
So that's where I'm at.
I'm not like dung-ho, pro-abortion, as some people I think are, and I'm not.
It also leads to the interesting question if the potential is what really matters once we can
make humans on computer chips, potentially trillions of combinations of different humans
are instantly possible.
And is it a bummer not to make them all come into existence?
Is it like the most intense moral tragedy or moral imperative not to make as many copies as
you possibly can and maximize the number of persons?
No, I hear you.
I don't think that that's the case.
Like I said, so for me it's more just like, you know, it's sort of an aside.
But that's my thought on abortion.
What was the other question?
What matters other than intelligence?
I mean, certainly, I think at base a capacity for having preferences, desires,
sensations, those sorts of things.
Yeah, those are all matters of mental complexity though.
Right, but I mean, there's like a sharp line between even slug and rock, right?
One is doing something that slugs do and rocks just, they exist, but not like in the same way,
right?
I think slugs are a decent example because we're getting close to the point where machines can
be as complex as slugs.
Are you, do those machines, will those machines have the moral weight of slugs after that?
Probably.
Okay.
Yeah, I'm certainly ready to throw my, what's the phrase?
Hat in the, I don't know.
I already used hat in the ring.
I'm certainly ready to get behind the idea that computers are capable in possibility.
So my thermostat wants things, wants a temperature to be a certain range.
Your thermostat does not have desires for the temperature to be a certain range.
We cannot look into my thermostat's brain any more than we can look into a dog's brain,
but my certain, my temp, my thermostat certainly is goals that it shoots for,
and it has a way to affect the environment to reach those goals.
I'm not arguing my thermostat is anything more complex than an insect,
but something that controls an entire house might be complex enough to be equal to a worm
or a slug.
Would you then be as hesitant to turn off your house at night or if you're leaving on vacation
as you would be to step on a worm?
I think that that's an interesting question.
And at some point you could, I mean, you can push it down past a worm and get all the way
down to something and there'd be at some point where I have to say, you're right, maybe.
But the thing, I think the thing with the thermostat example is that it's,
it doesn't have a coordinated system.
I think its idea of preferences and desires is fundamentally different from,
you know, even a lower animal, right?
Because you can relate to it?
Well, because it, I don't think that it gets a sense of satisfaction out of,
out of attaining 72 degrees in the house.
Does a worm get a sense of satisfaction out of eating a certain bit of manure?
It probably gets something that makes it want to keep doing it.
So is the thermostat.
It doesn't need to want anything, it just, it does what it's told, right?
Yeah, well, the worm is just following its evolutionary programming.
All right, so.
I mean, I feel like you guys are getting stuck in a little bit of a loop over there.
Yeah, well, that's exactly what Edgar said.
People just start talking in circles.
But can I, can I break y'all out a little bit and tell you what else I value in animals?
Yes, we never got to yours.
How about abilities they have that we don't have?
I don't know because they're so they're instrumentally valuable to humans.
Or just for themselves.
How about I value what animals can create and do for themselves?
I value the way that a killer whale mother can teach her child a certain hunting technique
or a certain language, or a monkey can teach her child to wash a piece of fruit before eating it.
Okay, I can definitely see the value in having biodiversity.
That's culture right there.
So I'm interested in that.
I think that's amazing.
So what they can do for us.
How about what they can do for the world and other animals?
How about the incredibly complex
interactions that start on a molecular level in non human animals?
They have amazing, you know, different kinds of interactions that are happening,
starting molecular level, going through cells and tissues,
going through intra-species interactions, so interactions among themselves,
and then inter-species interactions, symbiosis, predator-prey interactions, ecology.
It's all fascinating and amazing and wonderful and worthwhile in its own right.
And, you know, if you want to put the selfish,
humano-centered, because we have evolved to think that humans are the most important,
and specifically that we're the most important, this is okay.
There's a lot that we can learn and get from that, and we are constantly learning and getting more
from that.
Can I ask you about the beauty of natural systems?
You can even study.
I was shocked learning about aphids.
Aphids are very well studied.
Learning about how aphids are so simple.
They don't have much of an immune system.
They have outsourced their immune system to other organisms that live in them.
You know, that's so cool.
That is actually very cool.
But my question would then be if you place moral weight on these systems because of their beauty,
which I think is a perfectly acceptable thing to do.
I value a lot of things just because they're beautiful.
Do you ever look at the horrific sides of nature as well and weigh that off?
I don't think I said beauty at any point.
That is certainly the...
Well, you didn't say that word, but that was the impression I was getting,
that the complexity and the way it all interlocks, and it's interesting.
There's something, it's worthwhile, just the first thought.
But you only mentioned good things.
You didn't mention the horrors of animals eating each other while they're alive,
and intestinal parasites eating, you know, things from the inside out.
Those are all, they also have intrinsic value.
The truth is there's a lot of different...
Isn't it a negative value at that point?
No, it's negative for the animal that's being parasitized,
for the post, but not for the parasite.
Potentially, parasites have a lot to teach us about dealing with the immune systems of their
host, which leads to cancer treatments.
Okay, so again, they're utilitarian,
