I mean, a murderer probably gets some sort of utility out of murdering someone,
but we still think that he's a bad person.
Yes, but his...
Or hers, or theirs?
Their preference also matters.
It's just that everybody else has a strong preference that they not be murdering people.
Okay, so there needs the many outweigh the needs of the few?
Yes, they can.
Okay, so the truth is there's all these different values,
and sure, you, Anyash, or me, or Steven, we can all weigh them different amounts
ourselves in our own lives, but each one of those has consideration,
it has weight, what Vivek wants has weight, because Vivek wants it.
Yeah, I mean, I'm going to disagree with you on that in the future,
but I want to get back to something else first in the future,
meaning in a few minutes.
Okay.
I personally do not hold to this, but I have heard people saying that one of the most moral
things that humans should make their absolute quest is to destroy nature as soon as possible,
because nature is a carnival of horrors, and the mass negative utility does not outweigh
what occasional goodness and beauty we see.
And so one of the best things that we should strive for is to eliminate all natural suffering
by eliminating all the things that suffer.
There's a really interesting, very short story by Alicorn about the subject where
were dogs, where the last dogs were made sterile, and they lived out their own happy lives,
and then there were no more dogs.
And after that, there were other things that took the place of dogs, but that were not dogs,
because, well, various reasons to get into the story.
But the point being that if you are making moral judgments of nature,
it's probably safe to say that nature comes down on the negative side of that equation.
I don't know why you would glean that from what I just said about everything having moral weight,
including things that you would find horrific.
You do not give negative weight to bad things.
Like, you don't think that torture is negative utility?
Yeah. Well, I mean, if using Vivek, this small Chihuahua terrier guy as an example,
if he has an intestinal parasite, if he has a flatworm, right?
If he has tapeworm, and that's not a good situation for him.
That is a negative utility for Vivek, right?
And because I care about his comfort and well-being, and that's valuable to me,
then I'm going to give him medicine to kill that tapeworm.
And that's negative utility for the tapeworm.
And I don't want to get crazy inside the tapeworm's head or anything,
but animals generally want to survive.
That is a fair assessment.
Also, I think that the desires, the utility of animals changes at different levels.
And they can be contradictory.
What is it that, so would you say that the Vivek, the dog here,
is more important than the tapeworm because he's simply more emotionally relevant to you,
or because he's actually more valuable than a tapeworm for other intrinsic reasons,
such as mental complexity, for example?
But is there some difference between him and a tapeworm, or even like a colony of tapeworms,
or is it only because you have emotions for him and not for the tapeworms?
So a couple different things, right?
Before I said that intellectual complexity is not the only thing that I value animals
for humans by, but it is one of them.
So in my dance, I've got to balance that Vivek, while not being the smartest puppy in the whole
world, is much, much smarter and more interesting and can do more cool things.
Well, tapeworms are actually really neat, but more and more things.
Vivek, you're not going to survive this hour either.
I'm sorry, boy.
I'm so sorry.
I have in my pocket a vial full of tapeworms.
So we want to give them to Vivek to watch them grow?
Yeah, but I almost infected myself on purpose once.
Not with tapeworms, but with Giardia.
Which is Giardia?
Oh, it is a prosoan that you get from drinking non-purified, non-sanitized water.
Was this for an allergies thing, or is this entirely different?
No, I just wanted to.
Oh, you just wanted to?
You're a strange person.
I'm inclined to pull my hat out of Katrina's ring.
Well, no, I wanted to for science.
Anyway.
You can get away with a lot as long as you say those two words.
You can have my hat back.
Thanks.
Well, so it wasn't for the moral utility of being a host to this invasive species.
No, although I used to not swat some mosquitoes for that reason.
Because I was like, oh, it's just a little bit of blood and some itching.
And this mosquito can now have a whole brood of babies and a good life.
So I disagree that mosquitoes can have a good life.
There is no sense where anything a mosquito can do is good because insects, in my opinion,
are right on the edge of robots.
Wait, so let me go back a little bit to talking about different levels.
Kind of like moving rocks.
Yes, yes.
I would very much consider insects just stimulus response machines.
I can sort of get behind that.
Because I would say that the negative utility I get from scratching at a mosquito bite that
could potentially become infected, that I could potentially contract at West Nile during receiving
of is probably the negative utility from that probably outweighs the positive utility of
the lifespan of a mosquito.
Dude, fuck all that.
The negative utility of having a little bit of itching as you as a human is worth more
than a mosquito.
Because mosquitoes are worth literally nothing.
Dust specs?
Yes, they're on the same level as dust specs.
Considering what mosquitoes are capable of, if there was a little robot that did that,
it wouldn't be a dust spec worth robot.
I brought up dust spec specifically as the torture versus dust spec.
Yeah, the torture versus dust spec dot experiment.
Understood.
So what I was saying was that there is what the utility of an animal on an individual level.
Then there's the utility of an animal on a family level, right?
Or a community level.
And then there is skipping probably a couple levels.
Then there's the utility of species.
Eye level, metaphysical level.
Really quick, you mentioned the community and the social aspect of one of the levels of
moral weights to an animal.
Yes.
So for solitary animals, it might be an individual plus their offspring, right?
But that was the only thing that I was going to weigh when Enash mentioned the solitary
animals as far as, and I hadn't considered the argument that much of our empathetic
software comes from being able to model ourselves and using that as a model for other people.
And that's how we interact with them and anticipate how our actions will affect them.
I think it actually, from what I've heard, the hypothesis is it started the other way around.
You modeled other people because those are the things that you interact with and you need to
model and eventually that got turned onto the self.
The Machiavellian intelligence hypothesis.
Yes.
So I think that's what I meant to say.
And that social animals lack that, which means that they very well lack much of the
self-reflective software that we have.
I don't think they lack the ability to model other animals and what they're going to do.
Let me not to the same level as social animals often have to.
Solitary.
I was just rehearsing my interpretation of Enash's argument really quickly.
But the other thing to consider with the lack of social interaction for a particular animal
or animal species, I think would have a net or would have, it would decrease the amount of
weight you put into them as moral beings because the amount of people, the amount of other things
that would be bummed out by them dying is less, right?
So I mean, you consider-
Not necessarily.
Predators are often keystone species.
They're often solitary and predators often have bigger brains than other animals.
I think we're moving the goalposts though because we're not, we're talking about like the,
I mean, maybe not.
I don't know if a predator would mourn the loss of, I don't know if the hawk would mourn the loss
of a field mouse because it's sad that it died.
I think it would be like, oh, there goes my dinner, right?
So it's not, it's not, those are two different kinds of caring about things, I think.
I thought you were talking about solitary animals that people, people or other animals or just
other entities would not be bummed if they died.
And I was just saying, lots of solitary animals, like let's say leopards, right?
Big brains, they need that to be clever hunters.
They have to model the behavior of their prey animals, which are, you know, wonderfully
co-evolved to be able to evade them.
And they have to, you know, they have to be good hunters or they won't make it in the
world and they won't have offspring.
Now, if an animal like that dies, do you think that it probably has less moral weight than,
say, a social gazelle?
Well, I think that would, you were just saying when you said you got to consider the
social utility of an animal as well.
So I just answered your question very quickly.
I do think that all of the things being equal, the amount of suffering caused by your death
by, say, things that care about you in some manner adds more weight to that thing.
That's fair.
So that's another layer to add.
And then what I was saying was from an ecological perspective, the loss of a keystone predator
can have major repercussions in the rest of the ecosystem, right?
So that can potentially in that way be a lot more damaging than the loss of a social animal.
But it seems that we are again talking about the utility of species to systems rather than
actual things like moral weight.
Yeah, I think that we need to solidify what we're talking about as far as are we talking
about individuals, individual organisms in and of themselves or them in their relation
to a larger ecosystem?
I think you have to talk about all of them.
And I think that all of those have moral weight.
If I, as a biologist, say, I give moral weight to biodiversity, I am right out the gate saying
things that immediately conflict with giving moral weight to individual animals.
Okay.
Well, yes.
But as an example, I can see there being a case made where the lives of maybe all the
leopards on earth versus the life of one human where the lives of all the leopards on earth
may be more important because of whatever devastating effects it may have on ecosystems
and how that will waterfall and affect a lot of other humans.
You may want to choose for that human to die instead.
However, in general, any large group of any individual animal I would never place as more
important than any even one human.
Yeah, I really disagree with that.
Okay.
I'm torn.
I feel, I hear what you're saying and at some point I would say that if you get a sufficiently
high number of leopards, I'm not prepared to put a number to it.
But even assuming the environment would be fine.
Like say if we could clone a billion of them and put them like just in a ball on the moon
and like, all right, is it a bad thing if we blow up this ball?
If we're doing that, I think the more imperative is to find the guy who's making these billions
of clones and stop him because that's the problem.
Because that's how we're going back to this serial where it was like, you know,
intro to philosophy and everything.
It was like, you know, what if Hitler was doing this and that?
And it's like, I think we need to find the guy who's cloning all these Hitler's.
Yeah.
So in any situation that I think is remotely applicable to something that might happen in
real life, humans and animals are not really even remotely comparable.
I can totally see where you're coming from.
But I just, I have, I mean, I'm not saying I agree with him.
