So yeah, there's, since it's an arbitrary line,
there's, it's really hard to justify why
have it one place and not another.
But if you latch onto something physical
and apparent in the real world,
like a river, then you're like,
well, because the river is right there.
So we stay on that side,
we'll stay on this side and everything will be fine,
even though lots of times, you know,
cities get built up on both sides of the river.
And in some places, like Kansas City,
become more or less distinguishable
as there's just one big city,
even though they're in two different states.
Ah, but back on topic.
So a showing fence is something,
someplace where you draw a line
because it is clear and makes a natural demarcation.
And so I do that with birth of a human.
Because that's when it comes out of its mother's body
and it is its own being
and it is definitely a human and alive.
So that's, that's a better point than any other.
Because at any other point,
you're like, well, why don't you move it one day forward
or one day back?
Well, it's also, you know, it's not,
it's not a super defensible line.
It's, well, it depends on what you're trying to defend against.
So if you say, oh, it's its own person,
well, it's its own person,
but it's also parasitic on a host before.
So like, oh, that's not an enormous difference.
It's not, but it is, it is something that you can easily see
in the real world.
And I identify very quickly.
Richard Dawkins in one of his books
raises the point that it's only an accident of history
that our ancestors that were of, you know,
comparable intelligence to us have gone extinct.
That if it weren't the case,
and we had Neanderthals still running around,
would we include them in our moral circle?
And while they're not humans,
say if they were different enough
that we couldn't breed with them, right?
Well, they're not humans, so no.
Would they be among the other great apes
in almost going extinct,
and we use them in commercials and keep them in cages?
And teach them to smoke so they can act in movies?
A lot of it to me would depend on how intelligent they are.
Can they talk about the future
and about people who are not present?
Okay, so your test isn't just a spring from a female womb,
but from a female human womb.
It's barring that.
What else can they do?
Animals have a situation.
Well, I'm saying anything above that shelling fence
of a human coming out of a womb is equal weight,
regardless of what their relative intelligence is.
Okay.
Like an IQ 80 person and an IQ 140 person,
I consider, yeah, worth the same amount,
even though it's going strictly on a,
what is the intellectual complexity,
you wouldn't do that.
But animals that have a similar intellectual complexity
to a three-year-old human
are completely beneath your consideration.
Because they haven't passed the coming out
of a human mother's womb test.
Exactly.
Okay, cool.
Let's end on this note.
And you can judge who won this debate.
No, let's not end just on that note.
I do this for various political and, as I was saying,
preventing horrible consequences of not doing it reasons.
But when it comes to, for example,
a being made out of silicon,
I would be very interested in whether they are as smart
as a cat or as smart as a human.
And I think that that draws at what I was saying
about our evolutionary intermediaries, right?
So I'm trying to avoid the eugenics programs
where you say that people less intelligent
than you are worthless,
and therefore should be eliminated
or just killed outright where they're standing.
And I think that is extremely immoral,
and that is why I put that shelling fence at humans,
because they are, if you don't consider them of equal worth,
then you can start coming up with justifications
of why some should be killed and others shouldn't.
And that has terrible consequences that we should avoid.
Quick caveat, animals can talk about, you know,
animals can consider things that are not there
and other animals that are not there.
Really quick, I wanted to say that it's fortunate
that we live in a world where the test is so easy.
And so if we did live in a world where Neanderthals
are running around, we might have to have tests
for them to pass or something to determine
whether or not we can eat them, right?
I mean, I would assume the Neanderthals
would create their own communities
and that we would, you know, work with alliances.
Smarter chimps then, whatever, right?
Well, I mean, a large part of having rights
is can you enforce those rights?
And if the Neanderthals can enforce their own rights,
then they have rights.
But there are groups of humans that cannot.
And that's why you have your fence.
Yes.
Okay.
I think that that is a not completely unreasonable position
to take, that it makes the drawing the line
of humans non-arbitrary for a good reason.
Okay.
And most arguments that talk about how important it is
for to not draw the lines at humans don't really get into that,
at least that I've seen.
So that's interesting.
Okay.
And what animals talk about stuff that's not around?
Animals take into consideration other animals
that are not around all the time, right?
Whether you are making a scent marking to look for a mate
or to making a different kind of scent marking
to warn other animals out of your territory.
Whether you are a monogamous seahorse that hasn't seen their mate,
but it doesn't take a mate for a few days.
Yeah.
I mean seahorses, they work on a kind of shorter time scale.
But like that kind of consideration that and then,
or if you're a crow or you know that's communicating about
something that the other crows haven't seen themselves
or a prairie dog and you're communicating to the other members of the colony
about something that they cannot see themselves, right?
So there's definitely that kind of communication.
I mean, it is amazing how simple animals can be and still learn.
You may have seen the Archerfish face recognition.
I have not seen that.
Oh, it turns out Archerfish can recognize human faces.
Neat.
And they recognize their feeders.
And they, I guess, did an experiment on it,
but they first kind of figured it out because
certain people would go into the lab and not get bothered.
And other people who were feeding them
regularly would go into the lab and get a face full of water.
Isn't that the same way they, what sparked the president mask test
that some student researchers noticed when they came back the next year,
the various crows were dive bombing them and really aggressive to them?
And they're like, what the hell happened?
Why are these crows attacking us?
And yeah, they tested to see whether they could remember human faces
and yes they could.
And they were very pissed.
Don't fuck with the crows, man.
So it's interesting.
I feel like Katrina and I are on the same side of the fence,
but in different camps.
To me, it's less about animals have,
like their culture being inherently important.
And I mean, I see what you're coming,
see where you're coming from, but I, I'm more.
It's important to them.
Is it important to them in the same way at all that it's important to us?
Like if, I mean,
Does a dog worry about what's going to happen to its children after it dies?
I don't know.
I think that we could look into tests about dogs and anxiety and worrying.
They certainly do worry about things.
Do they worry about their children?
Considering that empathy probably developed from maternal care, then yes.
I agree they worry about their children,
but the question was,
do they worry about the future of their children after that dog,
after they themselves die?
Do animals know about their own mortality?
I mean, there's evidence that they do.
Temple Grandin is very,
Dr. Temple Grandin is very famous for her work on slaughterhouses and
lowering the panic and fear in animals as they walked in by making it,
so they couldn't see their herd mates being killed.
But if I recall correctly,
that was much more of a frightened stimulus in the environment and less of a,
I'm about to die.
Well, no, no, even I'm about to die.
Yes, I'm about to die because I see a thing that's about to kill me,
but less of a recognition of, you know,
I am a mortal creature and someday I will no longer exist.
So maybe those are questions that we can't ask yet.
Right.
We didn't even get into food or dietary preferences in this episode.
