Obviously Dio lives.
He's the better dog.
And Vivek, Vivek doesn't.
Sorry, little guy.
He's going to die for a god, right?
Oh, he's sleeping.
For Morrowind.
So he gets to live on forever anyway.
Yeah, that's right, little guy.
We love you.
We love both of you.
I didn't finish the tribunal expansion.
Do you end up killing Vivek or just dealing with him?
Anyone who knows Morrowind, feel free to write in.
All right, let's do our listener feedback.
So, a historian actually wrote us about our Atamom statements.
Sasha wrote, regarding episode 13,
you didn't mention another theory behind the dropping of the bombs on Japan.
That is, when Truman came to power,
he knew of the Manhattan Project only in the Vegas terms.
Vice presidents were, in those days, mostly decorative.
They were a spare, needed only if the president was incapacitated or died.
Truman relied on his advisors for information,
and these included Secretary of War, Henry L. Stimpson,
who had just overseen the Manhattan Project,
which had spent two billion US dollars,
about 26 billion dollars in 2016, according to Wikipedia,
on a super secret weapon in order to defeat Adolf Hitler.
Germany had just been defeated by conventional means before the bomb was ready.
Stimpson would presumably have to justify the expenditure to Congress after the war,
is then suggested that he had every motive to encourage Truman to drop the bomb
and justify the project's existence.
Similarly, Leslie Gros delayed the slizzard, that is not how it's pronounced.
Zillard, thanks.
Zillard petition against the bomb,
so that it did not reach Truman until after the bomb was dropped.
Very few historians today still look to monocausal explanations for events like this,
and for good reason.
Personally, I think ending the war quickly was the main factor behind Truman's decision,
but it's a reminder that in real life, most decisions are driven by multiple motives
and often influenced by more than one person,
for all that Truman claimed that the buck stops here.
This, of course, complicates game theory enormously and makes it far more interesting.
Keep up the great podcasts.
Fantastic.
Yeah, thanks, Sasha.
That's pretty huge.
I'm inclined to take your position given that you're the expert on this, so...
I love our listeners.
They really make the podcast a lot better with their input.
And so right.
There are, of course, even when we go about our day-to-day lives,
we generally have multiple motives for what we do, and not one main one.
So you would hope that people who are in positions of deciding to murder
millions of people, that they would also have multiple inputs.
I would hope so.
Or one really, really good reason.
I have a listener input from a name that I can't pronounce,
but fortunately, he says that you can call me Sebastian,
which is my backup name for English Pete Bill.
That was the person whose name we tried to spell out on our first listener feedback episode.
Okay.
But what was like, the Zabla, whatever.
He had a question regarding the game theory episode.
He says he was listening to it, and he didn't quite get the part about the transparent box
with 10,000 and the opaque box with a million.
He tried to rewind and re-listen and still didn't get it.
So like, one of these chews if they're going to open just the opaque box,
which might be empty, or two boxes, and what?
What's the deal after one opens the box or both?
And the answer is that's pretty much it.
That yeah, then the game's over.
Yeah, you get what's in the box or boxes that you opened.
We might not have mentioned when we re-recorded that part of the episode,
that whole thing is called Newcombe's Problem.
And so if you want to look up more into it, it's got a great Wikipedia page and I'm sure 100 others.
The main point is, do you trust the additional information given by the fact that the person
running the experiment is an excellent predictor of character.
And has been many, many, many times before.
And therefore go with a single box to avoid potentially not getting anything at all.
Or do you just open the box that you can see that has the smaller amount of money in it?
Or I guess, no.
Open two boxes and then risk only getting the amount that you can see.
There we go.
Yeah, so basically you either open both and get either $10,000 and nothing,
or $10,000 and a million, or you open only the opaque box and get either nothing or a million.
Depending on what Omega predicted, you were going to do.
Yeah, it's fun.
Look, it's Newcombe's Problem for a longer explanation and all the arguments for both positions to take on it.
Anyway, I think that's it for feedback on this one.
I actually did have one more piece of feedback which was given verbally.
And this goes back to our polyamory episodes again.
Shelly said that she actually had a pretty good steelman reason for why polyamory might not be as good as monogamy.
Being that in polyamory, sometimes you have to keep things from partners which can distance you from them.
And I personally didn't understand that, so I wanted her to give an example.
And she actually gave a great example.
Good, because I'm in exactly your boat so far.
Am I in that example?
No.
Good.
I'm thinking if you have to keep stuff in your partner's, are you doing polyamory, right?
Right.
Let's find out.
So her example was, let's say that you have grown up with your sister who you love very much,
and you guys share everything with each other,
and then you grow up and you get a partner, and then that partner, once your relationship has gotten really close,
tells you something that you cannot tell to your sister for whatever reason.
There is now a little bit more distance between you and your sister than there used to be.
And you still love her very much, but it's not quite the same relationship it was before because of this partner that you have.
And she said, if you can imagine that happening with a sibling, you can imagine that happening with two partners that you may have at the same time.
And I thought that was a really good point and also a little bit sad.
That seems like the cost of just having what Seinfeld would call a vault.
You know, something that you're told that you never tell anybody.
Yeah.
Being good at keeping stuff that's absolutely confidential, confidential.
Right.
So yeah, but I mean, I don't know if that's a problem unique to polyamory.
No, it isn't.
So like she said, but I guess it would increase the number of people that you have to keep things from.
It's not necessarily unique to polyamory, but I think there comes a sort of assumption in monogamous couples that anything you tell one person in the couple,
both of them will know.
There's even that assumption in the law where spouses cannot be made to testify against each other.
It's as privileged as the lawyer-client privilege, if not more so.
It's uh, yeah, it's considered, you know, quite a big deal in society that generally if you tell one person a couple something, they'll both know.
At least that's what I've always assumed.
I never tell something to someone who's in a relationship that I don't want the other partner or partner is in a relationship to know.
I guess I don't have that many secrets, but I'm sure that secret, the whole, if, to people have secrets, I'm sure there's all kinds of rules.
But I think that might be something I've heard where-
I definitely had friends tell me things that I cannot share with my husband, for example, or anyone.
Right.
So to friends, don't tell me something if you don't want, you know, I'm just, I'm bad at secrets in general.
Don't tell me secrets. I don't like them.
If you killed someone, I will tell the cops, unless they really had a comment.
I think it depends on me for the secret. Like, you know, I know stuff that I haven't told my, my partner because why would you think it's interesting?
So like, it's not, like, I don't, I don't do a lot of gossip. So like, if it's like, oh my god, this person told me that they did this and she's like, I don't know what that is.
Why would I care? It's like, you're right. Why would I bother telling you?
So I kind of just imagine that on the drive home and I just get the whole part of the conversation.
But that's, that's a fair point. And I think her point is taken whether or not it applies perfectly to me. So yeah, that's awesome.
Thanks for listening. You can contact us at the, no.
Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com.
No thee.
But if you do go to the Bayesian conspiracy, that's the website. And I will have read the book and potentially have, have more stuff on there and more information and lots of links.
And you can post comments on our website.
You can, you can, or also Reddit. Reddit is better in some ways because you can upvote things.
And talk with other people in, you know, in an easier way to comment.
Yeah.
So consider Reddit.
The Bayesian Conspiracy subreddit. I think it's R, the Bayesian Conspiracy.
Yeah.
So.
All right.
That's, that's all the ways to get in touch with us.
Anyway, thanks for listening and talk to you soon. Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
