You can draw tentative speculation
on what it must be like to be an organism in the universe
because I would argue that any complex life
that arise arose in the universe
came about through something like Darwinian evolution, right?
And so some of the similar motivations
were likely drawn into that.
But my point is, is that it was just a thing
with Neil deGrasse Tyson arguing about,
or saying something along the lines of how people,
or how, you know, the aliens might find,
I'm running in a circle here.
My point is, is that I found an annoying analogy
because there's no way that they would think that, Neil,
come on.
Also, the whole, you know,
whatever percentage difference DNA
is not responsible for greater intelligence.
Of course, there's a whole bunch of differences
between us and chimpanzees,
and there's even more differences
between us and ravens,
and ravens are pretty darn smart.
So that's not...
Are you smarter than chimpanzees?
The, I agree with you, more or less...
In ways.
In ways.
About, that's why I said arguably,
about being annoyed by that comment
from Neil deGrasse Tyson.
I mean, if we're attempting to communicate
with things using prime number sequences and such,
there's obviously some sort of intelligence.
However, that being said,
I have read fiction before about
alien species that are an entire order,
different order of intelligent than humans,
just a higher level,
something more than I, basically, angels.
And it presented a really interesting dilemma to me
because I, because I, in reading that book,
I came to realize that I do actually think
that angels have more moral weight than humans
because they are that much smarter,
or, you know, in the book, angels.
So if we were to run across an alien species
that is significantly more intellectually complex
than we are,
I would think that any individual member
of that species probably has more weight
than any single individual member of ours.
But how many?
That's a good question.
All of us for one.
Right.
You know, it won't make much of a difference
to them if we're gone.
Exactly.
I think that's one of the reasons
it would be important to make sure
that we are either useful or no such situation
ever occurs.
Or, like, not at least in their way, right?
So, I mean, that's the kind of thing, you know...
Or delicious.
And then we found out that penguins tasted great
with sriracha, and we eradicated the species.
So there was a joke by Hannibal Burris,
along those lines,
that I think if it turned out that they were delicious.
What was I going to say?
Yeah, so the other thing with the Tyson comment is that,
at least from my perspective,
I don't know where he goes with the surveys,
even talking ethics or he's just talking
profound on that topic.
But to me, at least to the point that
your measure of intelligence
isn't the only thing that matters.
It might weigh in considerably,
but there was a great quote.
I should just dig it up so I don't butcher it,
but I'll go ahead and post the essay online,
and then I can just butcher the quote now.
In Peter Singer's All Animals Are Equal,
which was a 1975 or 76 essay published in The New York Times.
Time magazine, something like that.
Basically, it kicked off the animal rights movement.
That's what I thought you had done.
I read his book.
Yeah, so, oh wait, the book is called Animal Liberation.
The essay was called All Animals Are Equal,
which is the 10 page version of that 300 page book.
The book has 290 pages backing up the central pieces.
That's it, it's shelled out in the first 10 pages.
It was something along the lines of,
and I think he was quoting,
I can almost remember the name.
This was some quote from the mid 1800s.
It was, God, if I'm wrong, it sounded like an asshole.
It was, I think he was quoting a slave rights activist.
Who was saying, look, even,
and I think this woman was a slave,
or a former slave, or at least black.
And she had said, look, even if we take what you say,
and that, you know, my cup is smaller than yours,
am I not at least entitled to my little half measure, right?
You know, just because I'm capable of less,
does that mean I literally deserve nothing?
And that sort of drew home the point for me,
in that point at little essay,
in the context of, or that point at little point,
in the context of larger essay,
that yeah, we can't just look at intelligence, right?
It's otherwise like,
the smarter people matter infinitely more,
way, way, way more than dumb people.
And while they matter probably a bit more, you know.
I guess it depends on what they're doing.
Right, I mean, certainly if it's,
if it's a mad scientist, you know,
torturing leopards on the moon, then yeah.
We certainly, they might matter less.
Some negative utility there.
Right, but I mean, I guess,
as far as like what they're capable of,
I mean, to some degree, somebody with an IQ of 40
is probably less valuable,
even to themselves, and how much they want to live,
versus somebody with an IQ of 140, right?
Unless they're, you know,
unless they're not depressed and enjoy their lives,
like a, they have a people capacity.
Yeah, I don't think you can necessarily say that.
Be someone with an IQ of 40,
may want to live just as much or more,
as someone who's really smart.
That's fine.
How much do you think that Diego wants to live?
My point is, is I just to get my,
just so I don't sound like a dick about people,
you know, who might have IQs of 40,
I wasn't, I'm not wedded to those numbers,
or to like that premise exactly.
What I'm saying is that, the intelligence matters somewhat,
but I can't see that it should be
the only thing worth considering.
And that, to the extent that you argue that it is,
you would argue that people with less matter,
matter that much less, right?
So that's what I was arguing against.
Or trying to, if I wasn't talking myself in circles.
No, no, no, I get your point.
And if I were to be logically consistent,
then I would agree with you.
However, for various reasons,
I draw a line at the birth of a human.
And at that point, anything above that,
I can consider more or less of equal worth.
And this is because we are humans.
Yes.
Okay.
Because I need a nice shelling fence
to prevent things from going in terrible,
terrible places.
What's one fun thing about reading from different disciplines,
I happen to read these books right around the same time.
Yeah, shelling fences are actually a really good thing
that we should talk a lot about.
You can define it really quick now,
but I want to talk about it when we do an episode eventually
on self-brain hacking or like whatever.
That's like, to me, that's a very useful tool.
Yeah, that sounds fun.
Yeah.
Go ahead and define it.
Okay.
So shelling fence is a takeoff from a shelling point.
Have we talked about shelling points
earlier in the game theory episodes?
Yes.
Okay.
So shelling points, something that everyone
can converge on naturally,
because there's something that just makes itself apparent
as a natural convergence.
Shelling fence is the same kind of thing,
but it acts as a barrier.
For example, in the natural world,
the rivers are often boundaries between countries,
because they're, I mean, you can draw a boundary between country
anywhere you want on a map,
and then people argue, well, why don't you put it 10 feet
this way or why don't you put it 20 feet that way?
And there's no, there's no.
Apparently Norway and Finland are doing that right now.
Are they?
Yeah, moving the border 40 meters.
Okay.
