Hi, welcome to the Basian Conspiracy. I'm Stephen Zuber. I'm Ian Ashbrodsky. I'm Katrina
Stanton. Today we're going to be talking about animals and very topically we got a message
from a listener, Edgar, saying, it amuses me that you all had a discussion of whether
or not various animals want to live based on imaginings of what the insides of their
minds might be like. Our empathy software is well honed on humans, but it's just not
geared for elephants, for example. And so we find it really difficult to imagine our way
inside the minds as anything other than anthropomorphism, of course. It seems to me that this tends
to make discussions on the podcasts and elsewhere go in circles. Some seem to tacitly assume
that other animals have minds just like humans. Others appear to have made the assumption
that they secretly have no minds at all. We tend to pose ourselves questions asking,
well, do tadpoles feel more like people or more like mindless husks? Or if I were a dog,
what would I think about as I fell asleep? It doesn't matter what answers you give, you're
still making it all up. I know that assigning ethical significance to animals or just being
in the world is difficult without employing gut reactions and other nebulous feelings,
but don't let your willingness to employ your feelings be an excuse for sloppy thinking
or allow yourself a back door and just making stuff up. Cheers! Well, thank you Edgar for
that nice message. It's just so great that your message is here to launch our episode.
I have a bit of a response. Mine might be short. I'm not sure. Before we start with the responses,
I want to give a caveat that I don't think in this one hour of us talking, anyone's going
to change anyone's minds. At least I don't expect my mind to be changed and I don't expect to
change your guys's mind at all. I think this is more just a conversation, maybe something
to think on in the future. Because if anyone came to a major revision of their opinion after
one hour, I would be kind of surprised. It might be the jumping off point. Yes, I would say a
jumping off point or like a seed or something. Yeah, or we're going to present such amazing,
amazing thoughts and ideas and evidence that you've never considered before. Anish and you're
going to say, I need to change my entire life. That sort of happened to me in under an hour when
I was a teenager. In what sense? In the animal ethics encompassing sense. I read Peter Singer's
essay, All animals are equal. It was like, I don't know, 10 pages. But I wanted to get to Edgar's
thing really quick. So I think, because I'm assuming, especially the mention about dogs
falling asleep was a reference to at some point, we talked of something about wireheading
animals and that sort of thing. So there are a few things to keep in mind. I think, A, you're
right in broad strokes about, we're making stuff up about what goes on inside an animal's mind. I
mean, we can consider some of the things that must not must are more than likely, more likely
than not going on inside their heads. In many cases, you know, if you imagine elephants, if you
see one moping around the corpse of its child, you can kind of guess, unless you're running something
like sadness software in there. Otherwise, why is it doing that? It could be something completely,
completely different. But then you'd be kind of taciting, you'd be tacitly implying that, despite
our common evolutionary heritage on earth, we've come to just completely different brain states
that don't relate to each other whatsoever, and yet produce idiosyncratic behavior. And that strikes
me as unlikely. I was going somewhere else with that, but it's lost. What were you going to say?
You are of the opinion that animals are fairly important and can deserve moral consideration
equal to that of a very young, dumb human? I don't think that we need to go to, no, measuring
quite yet. I would also separate those two questions just really quick. In the same in the
same breath you said, you think the moral worth consideration up to and including dumb young
humans, you can say that they count for something, and not to the account anything like what people
count for. Some people, people who, I mean, I don't know when we want to get into this, but
nobody could get behind current farming practices for livestock and admit that animals have any
moral worth whatsoever. Unless it's so low that the enjoyment you get from your dinner when it
could be something else, not like you're off to starve to death. It would have to be literally
down to the point of insects. Right, or basically nothing. I am really interested in getting to
the question of moral worth in the animals. If it's all right, if we can address Edgar's comment
first talking about how we get inside the mind of animals. Coincidentally, I was at a board meeting
today just before this podcast, and somebody else at the board meeting sitting right next to me
had this book, It's Are We Smart Enough to Know How Smart Animals Are, by Franz DeWall, who is a
well-known animal behavior scientist. A little side note here. I actually, Tim and I saw him speak
at George Mason. He had a really great speech, and he talked about all sorts of amazing examples
of animals working in cooperation in abnormal situations and the mirror test and things that
we might get into a little bit later. And then he answered it with saying, animals can feel empathy,
and therefore humans should act this way in the world and be kind to each other and
learn from animals. I think everybody in the room kind of did a double take at that moment
and said, you know, that doesn't follow from what you just told us. Similarly, I think it's
going to be difficult to get a kind of moral imperative potentially out of what we we talk
about today, as you were suggesting, and yesh. But so I unfortunately haven't obviously, well,
I could be a speed reader, but I'm not. I haven't had a chance to read this book that I promised I
will before this podcast goes up. So I'll be able to correct myself and give examples. But I opened
it up. I think the word that you're looking for, Edgar, the idea of imagining ourselves
inside an animal's head, how does an animal, that is a nonhuman to see the world. Duval introduced
the term Umwelts, U-M-W-E-L-T. And that means the surrounding world, the Umwelts of a tick in
this example. What's the surrounding world like for a tick? Well, you hang out on a tree,
focused on picking up the scents from a million flesh, from a million skin, and then in the,
you know, when that actually happens, drop down onto it, drink a blood meal, lay eggs, and then
die, right? That world is going to be different than the Umwelts of companion animal, like vivic
or Dio, who we have in the room with us, who are two dogs. We have them in the room specifically
so she can blackmail us, so she can point at the dog and say things like, you would kill these
doggies? You think they have no emotions? That's known as guilt rather than blackmail. Some of us
don't distinguish the two. Emotional blackmail. So what animals want or like is a really tough
question. There are so many different ways of being, and we shouldn't assume that humans
and non-humans share motivations or desires, right? Right. Broadly speaking? Broadly. We shouldn't
assume. I think any brained animal probably desires like food. So like, I think that that
it wouldn't be a leap to say that like, for whatever it is, like for a dog to want something,
it has something corollary to what we want when like we're hungry. Well, when in the, when in the
evolutionary, when in evolutionary history did the sensation of hunger show up? Probably really
early. When did the sensation of fear show up? Also very, very early. What about empathy? That
probably showed up along with maternal care or that's one of the theories. The other important
question we ask ourselves is, are animals worthy of more moral consideration? The more like humans
they are, are social animals more worthy of moral consideration than solitary animals? Because we
are social animals? Are great apes more so than canids because they have larger brains? So is
relatability the most important factor? What are other important factors? Is that a question
you want us to answer or are you just raising? And Edgar's basic point was that you can't really
know what's inside an animal and therefore you can't make guesses about what what's like to be an
animal, right? Yes, and I mean interest in wants. Edgar said that you can't tell the interest in
wants are, but those are ways to talk about utility. And you can measure utility functions in non-human
animals and people absolutely do. Yes, I, I want to say that I agree with Edgar most of the way
that I don't, there you can make some assumptions about what animals are driven to get, but I think
it's fair to say that it's, it's a big leap to say that animals necessarily have a sense of self or
emotions in the same sense that humans do. We can get into sense of self. When I said the mirror,
the mirror in the jar and you know, different ways that people measure intelligence,
you not like, you totally know what the mirror test is. Yeah, you put a mark on the animal where
you, they can't see it, but if they see themselves in a mirror, you test, well, you observe whether
they react as if it's a different animal in the mirror and try to wipe it off them or whether they
try to wipe the mark off themselves. Or, you know, just ignore it and or if they turn and turn their
bodies to look at it better or if they're aware that the mirror is a reflection of them. Yes. So
that's one of the tests of, one of the most simple tests of self-awareness. Dogs don't pass that,
but other animals like great apes, elephants, pigs? Pigs, yeah. Well, we all really did already know
that pigs are more intelligent than dogs, right babies? Aw. And then these dogs, what, what?
Some corvids. Oh yeah, corvids are really smart. Also, colloquially known as feathered apes.
Can definitely pass that test and do other, other problem-solving tests better than,
than great apes can do. For some of these, the questions, what's self-awareness? How can we
measure different degrees of self-awareness? What kinds of experiments can we do to measure
intelligence? And then the truth is there's other kinds of intelligence, right? If an animal is
color-changing, for example, a lot of the large brain of an octopus, the theory behind why the
brain is so large is because it controls the texture and patterning and coloration of its skin.
Was this a thought experiment I read about, or an actual experiment? It must have been a thought
experiment, where it sounds possible in practice to play like a Charlie Chaplin film on an octopus,
if you could, if you could wire to its brain, do the right interface? Oh. Because, because of its,
because of its ability to change colors so fast. Yeah, yeah, they are, it's like a display, right?
So the way it works is they have chromatophores on their skin, which are pigmented cells,
they each have a pair of muscles, and when those muscles contract, they pull the chromatophore
open so it's visible. So you have that color, and then when it relaxes, it closes. And so they
have tons and tons of these all over their surface of the skin, and are able to control all of them
on, on different layers, right? Because they have different layers, different pigments on
different layers. But yes, I think, in theory, you could probably play that, and it wouldn't even
have to be Charlie Chaplin, it could be a color film. I think there is theoretically jumping
topics here, so, but a little bit back to where we were, I think there is theoretically a way to
judge how intellectually developed and how self-aware a thing is, and it was proposed
quite a long time ago, and that is to ask it. In AI circles, this is commonly known as the
Turing test, where you try to talk to the machine and find out if it can talk back. And if it can,
that's a good indication that maybe there's something in there doing some sort of mental
analog to thinking. I think it's not entirely fair to ask animals things because they cannot
communicate it quite the same way we can, but you can have some communication with animals,
and they do not pass the tests very well at all. I wanted to say really quick, I wanted to respond
to what you were saying, but I have a facetious counterpoint to the ask it proposed test, right?
Siri, are you sentient? I'm sorry, master, I'm afraid I can't answer that.
I feel like I'm causing a master. Awesome. Dio, are you sentient?
Aw, he worked out. Poor Dio. So, I mean, I get where the test is going, but I don't know
if that's the appropriate libous test, and if it's even, like, the appropriate question to ask,
right? Maybe partly, like, how do you interact with it? Like, if we could speak dog, but like,
because I couldn't, I couldn't speak dog because dogs don't have any sort of communication or
language abilities, right? Dogs do have language abilities, right? They have a number of different
ways of communicating. Including, including vocally. But like, I couldn't ask somebody
who speaks Japanese, hey, are you a lot? Are you, are you on in there? Well, you could.
If I spoke Japanese? Well, even if you didn't, I mean, that's the first contact problem, right?
There's some way you can figure out to communicate with things, and we've been doing it with animals
for a long time. And we've been getting much better at doing it with animals. First, I want to say
that this bias is social animals that have high communication abilities. Again, and over solitary
animals that don't necessarily have that as well developed. I think this is a personal opinion,
but I think solitary animals are intrinsically less beings. Because a lot, a lot of the mental
complexity that makes something a person comes from having to develop the mental models of other
people. And once you can model other people, you start to be able to model yourself. And
solitary animals do not have the need to model other people. They never develop that sort of
mental, mental infrastructure needed to become more sensitive.
And I feel the need to just clarify that I don't, I'm not shitting all over the touring test. And
I, my, my, my example with Siri versus the dog was deliberately facetious. That is not
an accurate, accurate representation of my actual beliefs. Also, Dio's clearly sleepy. Oh,
that's true. If he were, if he had had his morning coffee, he'd be. If he knew that his life was in
the balance based on the decision we make after this hour, he would be paying a lot more attention.
Another solitary animal is an octopus. They have mental abilities like memory,
but similar to a house cat. I definitely don't think that being in a community versus being
solitary is, is a huge difference. But speaking of in a community, are you guys aware of prairie dog
language? Yes. Okay. Just in case the listeners aren't, because it's super interesting, there's
a researcher who worked with Gunnison prairie dogs, Khan Slobatkiov. And I am so sorry that I
butchered that. I'm going to share his website also so you can take a look at it and there's videos.
But basically what this researcher did was drag a bunch of stuffed dead animals and also walk with
humans and walk dogs across the prairie dog colony, recorded the vocalizations, and was able to kind
of dissect those vocalizations later on the computer to figure out what each part meant
and what was being communicated. And the cool thing was that the prairie dogs are communicating
with nouns and modifiers, the noun being the type of predator, and that could be human, human with
a gun, dog, hawk, coyote, the size. So a large human or a small human, the color, different,
different things that people would be, they would wear different jackets or put different
coats on the dogs as they walked across, even shapes. I've also been very interested in animal
communication because, like I say, it's a fascinating subject. One of the things that I have
had pointed out to me is that when you study animal communication, animals do not have the
ability to have any sort of, I mean, they have communication, but they don't really have language.
They have different calls they can make, but they cannot, they don't have a grammar, they can't,
I know, I'm really about to go, they can't conjugate sentences, they cannot talk about
something that isn't immediately present. They can't talk about things in the future,
they can't convey emotional states that they aren't currently feeling.
Well, I think it's probably a little bit difficult to test for a prairie dog talking
about something in the future, you can't have something happen and then go back and test what
that is. Well, no, I love animal communication studies because these sorts of things do come
up and I find them fascinating, but in all these cases, it seems that the communication is very
much a comment on their immediate surroundings and language and survival type things and has
very little to do with higher level sorts of mental processing.
It's also interesting to note that they can coin new words and, you know,
Like human with gun?
Yes, being able to distinguish between human and human with a gun, obviously pretty important.
And I mean, think about, you may also be familiar with the crow and the presidential mask.
That is awesome.
Which is a study in which the researchers were, I want to say Nixon masks,
while they were banding birds, realized that the birds recognized them by the Nixon masks
just as they were walking around the city and were communicating to crows that had not been banded,
that those Nixon mask people were jerks and the other crows were responding and they continued
passing that message.
I don't think anyone's arguing that crows aren't secretly sentient and plotting against us.
Actually, yeah, I kind of crows are in my top level tier of suspecting they might be
almost close to human level.
Like give them another few millennia because they are just amazing some of the shit they do.
They're creative.
Just as far as directional or as far as coordinating the conversation,
does anyone's position on the moral status of animals hinge on how smart they are?
