There are some differences like, I guess the Dodo bird really didn't matter when it went extinct.
But if you would have to cause a species to go extinct to keep someone alive,
then it may not be worth it.
But I mean, it just, as a general rule of thumb, it is.
Tim and I talked about this a little bit in the past.
How many sharks would I die for?
That's a good question.
How many sharks, what kind of sharks, what size of sharks, etc., etc., etc.
Because the loss, so if, so sharks, for example, are apex predators or candy,
and they provide very, very important ecosystem services by depressing numbers of
other predators that are a little bit smaller than them, right?
And that allows little, little animals and reefs to exist.
And it's just, there's a big trophic cascade is what that's known as.
So.
Wouldn't nature eventually over Fumilania adjust and refine to balance as a new
apex predator emerges?
Like super crocodiles?
I think it would probably, probably not because the reefs won't exist anymore,
because we're also doing all this.
We've had asteroids slam into the earth before and nature recovered.
Okay, so eventually, eventually, yes, right?
Eventually, after humans are extinct or do something good, then...
Well, let's not bring into humans, let's not bring humans into it yet.
Let's focus just on the animals.
Humans will be fine in theory.
Okay, the truth is the repercussion is potentially left of human being starving.
Okay, well, I mean, in that case, I agree with you completely that there's some level of sharks
I would die for.
If you want to, if you want to bring it home, right?
Yeah, but ultimately, my, my measure of value is how many humans does it hurt?
So, if, if there was no impact to humans at all and it was just animals in the ocean,
I wouldn't die for any number of sharks.
I'm wondering if I've been framing this question wrong this whole time
and I need to consider the world impact on a larger scale
when I'm considering the moral weight of animals,
or if it's easier to work with specific examples and say,
all right, look, I'm going to breed rats.
They wouldn't exist otherwise.
They're not going to exist with the environment.
They're going to live in my lab and I'm going to do science at them
and it's going to be terrible to them.
They're going to suffer.
I'm going to vivisect them while they're full of tumors and whatever.
That's reasonable.
I mean, that's a reasonable thought experiment that actually happens.
Well, that's my point.
So, it's a thought experiment of real life, right?
So, if we're only going to consider the effects on the world at large,
say if I'm just doing pointless science,
like I just want to see how much whatever it takes to kill them, right?
And I'm never going to tell anybody.
So, my, my-
In that case, you're not doing science.
You're doing torture.
Well, all right, fine.
I'll tell some people in a hundred years, whatever.
The point is, is that as long as I'm running it down at science,
I'm going to have no reason to notice.
Yeah, you don't have to tell people for it to be science.
You just have to tell people for it to be good science.
So, my thinking is that that is still a bad thing.
Be not, not, not because of its weight on the ecosystem at large
or its potential fallout through nature,
but because they, these, these rats have some moral weight to them.
They, they have pervitance desires.
They, they feel bad and I feel bad, Edgar.
I mean that they, you can measure distress levels and distress
levels go up when you torture a mouse in front of its friends.
The, the friends get freaked out.
You can also measure cortisol levels in mammals, for example,
which are produced when we're stressed.
And yeah, so there's all kinds of ways to,
depending on how your moral scruples are,
you can literally just, you know, plug into their brains and,
you know, stuff too.
Not, let me, let me, let me clarify.
You can't matrix them, but yeah, you can get, you can get
the pleasure shocks and, and you can give them,
you can get real time feedback on how freaked out they are,
you know, without even having to go in and,
and take blood samples and measure cortisol and stuff.
Can you?
I think so.
Oh, that's cool.
I, yeah, that was, I'm led to believe that.
But my point is that I think that that is a useful level,
at least to have the beginning of the conversation,
because yeah, once, once you get up to like the ecosystem falling
apart at the death of all the leopards on earth,
then like it becomes like, well, of course they matter,
then at that point, but my point, my,
to me, a more central question is,
if I have a leper that no one knows about,
that I'm just throwing horrible science at,
am I doing something wrong?
I think, I think so.
I think that it's, that the fun I get out of,
of doing science at it, I'm going to quit saying that.
The fun out of, out of, out of vivisecting it,
say if I'm just vivisecting it for my own pleasure.
Wait, dissections are objectively fun.
I, K.
But.
You have different measures of fun.
But also not worth it.
So you're talking about things like relatability,
that leopard can feel fear, right?
It can feel pain, feel.
I wouldn't even say necessarily relatability,
just the fact that it has, I mean,
I guess I could only do so in, in reference to me, right?
I guess, so I'm thinking of it in some, some regard.
But what if the leopard couldn't feel pain
and couldn't feel fear?
Oh, then do whatever you want.
Yeah, if it, if it was just a tereshivo, then go nuts.
But it's not a tereshivo, it's a walking animal
that we don't, that we're not smart enough
to know how smart it is to quote this, this book title.
Okay, well, we're, when you give us a hypothetical
that the leopard does not feel fear or pain or anything,
we're assuming that those are things that you know
to be true and are telling us.
I am, I'm telling you those, I'm telling you those things.
Okay, well, if it's just.
But, you know, let's say it evolves separately
from our evolutionary lineage and it's not really a mammal.
It's just, it looks a lot like a leopard
and does a lot of very similar to leopard things.
Okay, the leopard from the moon.
From the moon, it's leopard from the moon,
but not the one that was cloned and put in a ball.
It's a different one.
And just say this,
because just be sure of a leopard on this book.
Anyway, who is looking very, very calm
and slightly interested over at shoulder.
Well, in the absence of knowledge,
I would say it's probably best to err on the side of caution.
Yes, good.
Yeah, right, because.
Because that's the kind of.
This is an alien leopard.
And we might not know what other abilities it's developed.
Right.
Or what it means to be, what pain means to it.
And sort of like with my thoughts on,
you know, I mentioned this,
I had a friend call who listened to the voting episode
and how I mentioned that I want to generalize my voting out,
my decision to vote algorithm to like other people.
Yes.
I would want to, and that's how you win the,
that's how you choose cooperate on the prisoner's dilemma.
For that same reason, yes,
when in doubt err on the side of caution,
because you would certainly hope that they would take that,
that they were on the side of caution with you.
Right.
Yeah.
So this is a good time to bring up the one note
that I remember to jot down that I wanted to bring up.
Neil deGrasse Tyson bugs me whenever he mentions animals.
Or no, whenever he mentioned,
so he has this, this chain of reasoning that goes,
you know, we share 96% of our active DNA
or some number up there with chimpanzees.
And yet we're building rockets,
we're writing sonnets, we're doing all this cool stuff.
And that's only 4%.
So imagine what like another 4% could do.
And he's like, so what if,
what if there are aliens that are that smart
and they come to visit Earth and they're like,
oh, look at, look at Stephen Hawking over here.
He can do theoretical physics in his head,
just like little Timmy over here.
And that they might, they might assign,
you know, as much or less moral weight to us
as we do, you know, the things that are that much
smarter than us, right?
And so, and that, you know, what if,
what if we're just like ants to them and, you know,
they conclude that we don't matter,
just like we conclude ants don't matter.
That chain of reasoning always bugged me
because if you're flying from solar system to solar system,
you're coming across rock after rock,
full of nothing but rocks.
And even, so then you come across one planet
swarming with satellites and, you know,
full of people with like, you know,
that have harness electricity,
harness the atom, you know, make music, whatever,
you're not going to be like, oh, they,
they're just like the ants
that also live on that rock with them.
I mean, I certainly can't imagine,
I guess maybe Edgar would draw a problem with this,
but you can draw similarities.
