I thought that that would come up in the first 15 minutes.
Well, I actually, I'm not as strict about it anymore,
but due to the fact that pigs are pretty smart for quite a number of years,
I would never eat any sort of a pig product.
And nowadays I try really hard to avoid it,
but I don't, I don't beat myself up over it.
If I have some now and now and then,
I don't buy pig products either.
Okay, same reason.
Yeah, exactly.
And I get that at some point you're kind of like,
well, how many chickens equals a pig?
And I mean, I don't care about chickens.
But that is a fair argument to make.
Says the person who actually has chickens.
That should worry you.
He doesn't love them.
I do not love these chickens.
I have not named these chickens.
I think these chickens are kind of dicks.
I've never met someone who reared chickens that actually liked them.
It was, it was an interesting point.
I guess I'm thinking of farmers.
Since chickens do provide so much less meat per individual life than cows and pigs,
it's become kind of a thing in the,
in certain rational circles to not eat chickens.
Right.
If you're going to eat meat,
eat the thing that provides the most poundage of meat per life lost.
And I, I, of course, completely disagree with that.
I think eat the thing that provides the least amount of mental complexity per,
per pound of meat, which in my case is actually chicken.
I focus on chicken a lot because I consider them dumb fuckers.
You're also a dumb loud fucker.
Yes.
But really quickly, just because it's a joke.
But Scott Alexander said,
you know, you aren't really a religious group until you have your own prohibited animal.
Like the Jews and Muslims got pigs.
The, the Hindus have beef.
And now the rationalist movement has chickens.
So we can call ourselves a religion finally.
I was going to say that, but you wouldn't choose to slaughter an elephant over a bunch of cows.
Because there's other considerations.
One, elephants much more intelligent.
Yes, that's the one.
But that's yours.
Right.
Also, they're endangered, right?
Yeah, yeah.
So they're in danger of being wiped out as a, as their own species.
So that's another consideration, right?
Another moral consideration on that.
Of why you wouldn't go and eat elephant flesh.
Hunters are always fond of bringing up like,
well, we control the population.
Otherwise, you know, the bad things that happen to be like more populated.
I'm like, yeah, that is not why you're out hunting.
You're not doing it out of moral imperative.
No, but it's a good excuse.
But if you're going to kill all the predators,
then you're going to have to keep that prey species down yourself.
If you're going to admit that it's an excuse.
Oh, yeah.
Don't act like you're doing something great.
Gotcha.
That said, you might be, but you're kind of doing it.
It's like positive collateral damage, right?
You're out there killing for fun,
and it happens to have an impact on the environment.
Yeah.
Katrina actually was the one who raised my question as to the,
I hadn't considered, for me, it was all about,
well, chickens are stupider than cows.
I know that.
So I'll eat chickens instead.
So I didn't eat cows.
I didn't eat pork.
I ate chicken.
And Katrina was like, yeah, but think of how many chickens,
I'm thinking of how many chickens you could eat
versus how many cows you could eat in a year.
And I'm like, well, shit.
But it's just like, that's like at least like a hundred to five,
right?
I'm not really, I didn't do the math.
But I could eat five cows in a year.
One to 40?
A lot of cows.
Scott Alexander had a post about it.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I mean, that's a fair way to put it.
That said, I'm fond of the taste of chicken.
So I haven't made the shift fully yet.
But yeah, as long as I'm going to be eating meat,
I should do as little suffering as possible, right?
So when it comes to actual actions, the results matter,
right?
The results specifically matter.
If it comes to actual actions,
what we all should be doing is not eating factory-farmed food
because those places are horror chambers.
Even if like...
We should all be involved in trying to pass litigation
that makes it more difficult for condensed feeding operations.
Yeah, regardless if it's chicken or beef or whatever.
This country worships farmers for some reason.
Yeah.
Yeah, but they like small farmers.
So they're organizations like, I want to say,
it's society for responsible agriculture.
Maybe not.
Maybe that's not what it's called.
But they work with small farmers and communities,
usually small kind of rural communities,
to stop large factory farms from being built in their community
where they're going to be impacted.
And it honors our weird love of farmers.
And local farmers.
And since if we're actually focused on America.
Yeah, right.
And if we're focusing on impact,
a lot of people have managed to put pressure on the really large
buyers of beef, such as McDonald's and other restaurant chains,
to switch to now get more...
Less horribly sourced meat anyway.
And since they buy so much meat,
they have a large impact on how the producers actually produce meat.
Yeah, and Mark Bekoff was the one who worked with Chipotle.
Okay.
Who is a local to Colorado animal philosopher,
let's say.
I think he actually is a philosopher.
Oh, cool.
McDonald's recently made a commitment to make the switch to
cage-free eggs.
Yes.
And I'm not sure, or was it cage-free or was it...
There's another word for it.
And it's an important distinction.
As it turns, there was something about...
Yeah, there's all sorts of small distinctions.
Like, do the chickens have access to any site of the outdoor sky?
Right.
Do...
And it turns out that that gives you a special label,
even if it's a window in the warehouse where they're all still living in stacked cages, right?
And yet it still makes a big difference.
It does.
I mean, any step forward is a good...
I guess, but I wouldn't pat myself on the back for that step, right?
They're still so miserable that they're trying to peck each other to death,
so you have to cull their beaks when they're born, right?
So, whether or not they have a window, I guess that's great,
but looks not like pat ourselves on the back for five years
where we make the next step forward, right?
Interesting story I heard.
When we...
When we summon Azathoth, sometimes we do not do it very well.
Azathoth being a useful shorthand for the process of evolution,
or metaphor for the process of evolution.
Chickens, when they were being selectively bred,
farmers would simply take the ones that produced the most eggs
and breed those over and over,
because you think that's the way to get chickens that make the most eggs, right?
A lot of chickens lived in communities, though,
and what ended up happening was the more aggressive chickens
would peck the other chickens,
and the stress of being attacked constantly
made those other chickens lay less eggs.
So, the most aggressive chickens were the ones that got bred
and eventually got to the point where they had to start ripping their beaks out
to keep them from pecking each other to death.
So, they don't rip their beaks out, but they do cut off.
They cut them off with a hot knife.
Right, well, they don't literally rip them out, I guess.
That's an interesting story.
I didn't hear about that, but that makes a lot of sense.
I'll have to double check my source and post it on the website
just to make sure that I'm not pulling this out of my ass,
but it is a story I've heard, at least.
It is the exact opposite of what happened with those foxes in Russia.
Because they were breeding them for being nice and peaceful.
Right, then they basically get, like, dogs.
Does it not have any important closing remarks, I hope?
I mean, I think we've covered a lot of our points.
Certainly not all of them.
There is an endless amount to say on exploring the inner life of animals,
on different people's approaches to...
This is just kind of a little teaser, I guess,
to how we feel about the topic.
And I'm really happy that our two guests were here today,
even though they didn't have speaking parts.
Dio and Vivek are both...
Oh, now we have to take the vote.
Which one of them lives and which one dies?
That was not part of the contract.
Damn it.
All right, you both guys both get to live.
