think that you're attacking them and not actually change?
So what's the point?
For me personally, I think there are like maybe five people where I would tell them
this unsolicited and many more where if they had actually asked,
why don't people like me that I would give them the suit back?
Yeah, I think this is an interesting point and I think also slightly different
from what I was trying to talk about, which is I think the thing I mentioned
mostly applies to like, I know someone would want to know this thing about me
but they like wouldn't think to ask and also it's like something that like maybe
puts me in a bad light or is like a little bit disadvantageous to me
for other people to know, but I know that they would want to know
and that I often will share those kinds of things anyway,
just because I think things work out better when I do that
and so I don't just feel like I'm hiding that thing all the time.
Maybe it's a central example of this,
something like being attracted to a person who you don't expect to reciprocate it.
Oh man, so that's a specific topic I wanted to mention at some point
of like places where I have difficulty with this.
That might be a good example.
It hurt for me to say because this other thing sort of takes precedence
and that I have traumas around people reacting very, very badly
when I've like expressed interest and intimacy
and so I am generally terrified of telling people that,
of like expressing any interest, so that's a place I struggle with.
But I think like the thing that keeps coming to mind
is sort of like having a dark past kind of things
where like knowing that you've done some terrible thing
that like probably isn't like who you are now,
but it's just like a context that can be useful for people to know sometimes.
I think for me at least, and I think I'm at least somewhat typical here,
my preferences for knowing things about people has appended to it
so long as it doesn't cause them significant emotional distress
to transmit this information.
I definitely have also had issues figuring out
how to communicate attraction properly
because there's a tendency and at least some circles for that
if it's not reciprocated to be taken as a slight somehow.
And I have seen people suffer significant social consequences
for that when it turned out to not to be unrequited.
I still don't know exactly how to communicate that sort of thing properly
outside of narrow social contexts
where it's expected that you communicate it upfront.
Yeah, and I think this is one of those things where like I know that I struggle with this a lot
but I still strive to be more straightforwardly honest about that kind of thing
because when I see other people doing it, it seems to be really good for them.
It's just a lot of terrifying work to get there from where I'm at.
I also think in the case of potentially negative things about yourself
that you would want divulged,
you wouldn't keep them absolutely secret
but you think they maybe cast you negatively enough
that you wouldn't be inclined to throw them out upfront.
I'm sympathetic to the view that disclosing that sort of thing is good
but on a meta level I think that if part of your means of communicating with someone
for example that you wanted to take on as a romantic partner
is to communicate everything about you immediately that might make you undesirable
that's going to make life difficult for you.
I have actually used that as my strategy when I date people.
I don't do it as much anymore but for a while there was a desperation
of trying to explain to people that like actually I have a lot of these neuroses
that are difficult to deal with and if you're not going to be cool with that
I would like to know that up front.
I think I've gotten better just picking people who have the same neuroses as me
so I don't have to communicate it
but I have actually like hey like out of my first date been like so you know
I have anxiety disorders.
I might have a panic attack randomly.
I get really irritable if I'm trying to read and just listing it off
like here's the list of things that you should know about me.
I think this is the kind of thing where like there is a thing to be said
for like giving good first impressions I guess
but I think that the penalty for like sharing a bunch of these negative things about yourself
like pretty soon in a relationship is probably much lower than you would think
I personally space them out when it's like relevant to context
because I think like you also want to give someone an accurate impression of you
and if you only just say all of the terrible things about yourself
that actually isn't helping give an accurate impression of you
but hiding them forever isn't either.
There's also maybe a question of norms where if people expect someone to exaggerate their good qualities
in describing themselves for dating and then they see you list all of your bad qualities
they think wow this is their times to goodness version of themselves
they must be really...
One of those signaling equilibrium things we were talking about yesterday.
Yeah.
Public service announcement, I've mentioned this to you Jess already
when I finish up legal systems in my own podcast
the next project will be Eleazar Yudkowsky's inadequate equilibria in podcast form
and Drake is providing one of the voices for that.
Hey.
Cool.
You heard it here first unless you said it somewhere else.
I said it at Solstice so there's a good chunk of possible audience that knows already.
If you didn't hear it at Solstice.
Alright.
We're talking about radical honesty in relationships
and something that I wanted to get to was
I am in the polyamory community.
So when earlier you were asking about which friend groups or which like social circles
in particular I use this kind of relationship style with definitely I think it's
for me like this is the only way I can do polyamory or even like going a bit further
this is the only way I would want to really do a romantic relationship ever.
So I'm completely sympathetic to that view
and I have some possible eggplant here
depending if you think that they wouldn't be comfortable having it discussed
but I know that Wes insists on disclosing this particular fact upfront about himself
and finds it very frustrating when even in a forum like OKCupid
where that's information that's put right in your face
people still don't read it and know and then act upset when they find out about it.
I am currently in a monogamous relationship
but certainly have found that it would it would seem very hard to make
a healthy relationship work without some level of trust and ability to like
know that you are communicating only honest things to your partner
and at least all all meaningful respects.
Something I find so frustrating is I think you see this in a lot of like rom-coms
or even commercials where
there's this like cliche about relationships where if your wife is asking
does this dress make me look fat obviously you're supposed to say no honey of course
and that seems to be a lot of people's relationship model
that one of the duties of being in a relationship with someone
is to like boost their ego even to the point where you're lying to them
seems very unhelpful to me.
That may that's an exaggerated feature of the formula rom-com plot though
as is other as our other forms of pure of poor communication.
My attitude to that sort of movie plot is Tom Lair is what Tom Lair said.
I think personally that if a person can't communicate
the very least he can do for everyone else is shut up.
Maybe that's why I don't like the romance genre is that it is so much like
so much of the conflict comes from miscommunication.
It doesn't have to I've seen good romances but like that's where the conflict is coming from something else
but so often even comedy in general without the romantic prefix.
There's this funny joke where these two characters are just screwing up
and if they had just talked to each other none of this would have happened.
Yeah I think there's a lot of overlap that and just doing poly in general
and that a lot of rom-com problems would just not be problems
if you're like poly and doing it well and I think these are very similar
because being poly very strongly requires good communication
and like being very open and honest with each other and that like I
it's like there's a lot of issues around jealousy and like being attracted to people
other than like your primary partner like especially in mono things
and like the way you get around that is you just talk about it like
you don't hide that you have various feelings you like actually discuss it with your partner
and this makes it like actually possible to work with these things
and I think that like a lot of the things that you have to do to do poly well
I personally think are also things you should be doing in mono relationships
it's just that the cultural structure of mono relationships gives people permission to not do that.
Yeah I don't even like the word jealousy I think insecurity is usually a more accurate word
like it's not that I want you to not date that person
like sometimes it's more just I don't want you to leave me
or I don't want to be getting less of your attention or love or resource.
I think the fact that poly has strong explicit communication norms around relationship structure
probably goes a long way to averting that.
It depends on what style of poly you're practicing too because there are different styles.
Non-hierarchical stuff I think you would definitely get around that for the most part.
I've gotten that sense elsewhere though as a YouTube book reviewer I like who did a video about why she doesn't read anything by Jane Austen
and her explanation was well every all of the conflict in a Jane Austen story comes from bad communication norms
and stupid norms about who's allowed to interact with whom
and if you don't have the values that make those norms that those norms are associated with
none of the story makes any sense.
Or it just frustrates the hell out of you.
Why is this a problem?
Go talk to this person and say the exact thing that you just said you're not currently allowed to say to them.
One topic I wanted to bring up was the interaction between others' privacy and honesty with someone else.
Like if you have a secret of a third party who you and your interlocutor are discussing.
Right so if A tells me something in confidence and now I'm interacting with B
and A's secret thing in confidence affects my interaction with B
maybe it affects my emotional state or some other aspect of that
how do you handle trying to talk about this with B?
Yeah for me at least
I don't follow the full version of this but
one rule set I've seen is
anything you tell me might be said to someone else unless you like
get me to confirm ahead of time that I will not.
And I do a slightly weaker version of this because I think
for that to work well you have to give everyone advance warning of that
who like ever might tell you something like that
which I just haven't told everyone that thing.
But it's another one of those things where I just try not to get myself in situations
where I have to keep that kind of secret
and so I try to make it very clear with the person who secret it is
whether like they really need me to not repeat it to anyone else
and I try to be careful with how many secrets I have to keep
because I ended up in a situation where
I knew a thing about an acquaintance
that someone else didn't want that acquaintance to know they'd said
sorry this is really hard to say without labels
Person A had told me a thing about person B
this affected my desire to be in friendship with person B
but I couldn't say why because person A didn't want me to say that
didn't want person B to know that person A had said that
because that would damage their relationship
and this is really uncomfortable situation to be in
and I mostly just solved it by I don't talk to person B very much anymore
which sucks.
Yeah I mean it seems like a hard problem.
Scenario I guess I could just say this
I was trying to like be coy about it earlier
I don't think I know none of my family members listen to this
and it doesn't matter
I was talking on the phone with my dad recently
and he just slipped to me
oh by the way your sister is pregnant
