Welcome to the music experience team, I'm Jess Diggie, I'm Phoenix Elliott, I'm
Gray, and I'm Drake. And you're probably wondering, who are these people?
Stephen and Inuyash are unavailable this week, so it's me and some friends. And
we're going to talk about radical honesty, but first I wanted to let everybody
introduce themselves. Gray and Phoenix have been on before, Drake you haven't.
Does anybody want to talk about what brings you here today and what your
rationalist history is? Sure. All right, so back in high school I opened up about
100 math blogs and stumbled across Scott Aronson's blog, which led me to Scott
Alexander's blog, and from there I sort of spread throughout lots of different
nodes in the rationalist community. And Gray and I have been co-hosting the
Minneapolis slash St. Paul Twin Cities meetups for the last year and a half
ish, yeah. And got invited to be on here about a week ago and excited to be here.
And I'm Gray. I, as Drake mentioned, co-run the Minneapolis St. Paul Meetup. I
got into rationality from editing Rational Wiki, that was not very well
advertised. And I read their article on Eliezer Yudkowski and found the
criticism so single-minded that I felt obligated for intellectual honesty to
read something he'd written and then found that I didn't agree with the
criticism. And then just kind of got into things further from there. Who was it
you said that wrote that article about him? It's a Rational Wiki's article,
community article on Yudkowski. Yeah, I don't think it's attributed to anyone in
particular, but it is really kind of biting. Yeah, rational Wiki is a weird
thing. It's got some good articles that I would actually forward to other people
and then some are very biased. I think it's good at generating biting snark and
not very good at choosing targets of that. Yeah. I think that's a good summary.
You can describe the internet at large. Okay, Phoenix, did you want to say anything about yourself?
Yeah, I... Oh gosh, I don't know. I've been in the Rationalist sphere for a while. I'm partners with
Jess. Radical honesty or at least my version of it has been like a thing
close to my heart for a while and like more explicitly so in the last like
year I guess. But we'll get more into that. So glad to be here to talk about it.
Glad to have you here. And thank you for segueing us onto the main subject. Radical
honesty. So first of all, what is radical honesty? Radical honesty is the practice
of training compulsive honesty, which includes refraining from telling even
white lies. The name is actually trademarked. Is it? Yeah, it's... I don't know how recent
that is, but the basic idea comes from a book slash self-improvement program by
Brad Blanton. Different authors have also proposed similar ideas, even Sam Harris
in his book Lying recently and Emmanuel Conn, less recently, who claimed in his
1798 essay on a supposed right to tell lies from benevolent motives that we
have a categorical imperative not to lie under any circumstance, not even to a
murderer looking for their victim. So people who are in favor of radical
honesty claim that lying is the primary source of modern human stress and say
that speaking bluntly and directly even about painful or taboo subjects will
make people happier by creating an intimacy not possible while hiding
things. So that's not exactly... So I'm a proponent of radical honesty. That is not
how I practice it exactly, but that's a pretty good definition. Does anybody want
to add anything or have any objections to anything I've said? So I read through
Blanton's... As part of preparing for this, I read through Blanton's brief, like
core principles of radical honesty that you shared. And I... Because I know that
you do the mindfulness meditation thing, I thought I would comment on it. I'm
getting some strong reminders of vipassana slash mindfulness meditation from the
way that Blanton talks about it. Is that something that's more... That's
obvious, still obvious when you're more familiar with the practice? Yeah,
absolutely. I think it was him who actually directly called it out as being a
form of mindfulness meditation or living your life in a state of mindfulness
meditation. So Blanton's radical honesty includes practitioners just stating
their feelings bluntly, like right from brain to mouth. And typically in ways
that are considered impolite, which like Blanton in particular seems to kind of
emphasize, like, yeah, you know what, those pants do make you kind of fat.
Oh, actually, I hate this band. Can we turn the music off? No, I don't feel like
going to your parents' house. Your mom's kind of an asshole and your dad's
cooking sucks, which are the kinds of things that would normally cause
conflict and hence the reason why, like, I guess default society tends not to lie
or tends to do the opposite. One thing that I was a little bit confused by
reading some of Blanton's stuff is there's a lot of talk about these sort of
social situations where you say a thing that might otherwise be taboo or left
unsaid or where you're expected to give answer A. You just actually say what you
believe. But I wasn't as clear on more extreme scenarios like Kant's example
where murderer comes to your house and asks if you have a fugitive hiding in
your attic. I don't know what Blanton advocates there. I don't know either. I
don't know if he's addressed Kant and that's a good question. Actually, I'd
like to look that up. I can't speak to what Kant would have to say about it or
to what Blanton would have to say about it, but I feel like it's consistent with
my impressions so far of radical honesty to say no, screw you. I know that you're
going to misuse that information and I refuse to provide it. So it's definitely,
so there's some other, like, variants of radical honesty that we're going to get
into here that definitely just makes space for that kind of thing. Should we
just start getting into the other people's versions? So Wes, who's I think
been on here before. A friend of the blog within Reason or Wes. Wes's version is, I
think, is a good starting point for like a more practical version of this that you
can just like start applying directly in your life where it is a perfectly honest
response to say, I don't want to tell you that instead of like giving the
information the person actually wants. Because like honestly, like sometimes you
actually just need to keep a secret and I try to live my life so that I don't
end up in that situation very often. Yeah, but sometimes you can't avoid it.
That's actually one of one of my, this may turn out to be addressed in more of
the literature, but one of my concerns with radical honesty is that the biggest
chunk of a lot of secrets is the fact that there is a secret. So being, having a
policy that requires you to divulge that there is a secret that would be
compromised by your answer, actually answering the question is not ideal.
Yeah, I think, like, I think there's an important distinction here still
between just saying something that is false in response versus I guess like the
like least information response is like the high old neither confirm nor deny
kind of thing. And like I would say that the I can neither confirm nor deny or
least I choose not to answer this kind of question or whatever is honest, but
it's not, it's also not trying to communicate at all, which defeats some of
the point, but is still, I think, honest in the most important way, which is that
it is not saying false things. Yeah. I'm, so the term that I have used, that I've
heard used to refer to this practice is glomerization, which was popularized by
Elias Yudkowski, but I think exists in legal circles as a term for this kind of
thing, at least judging by Wikipedia article. I think one thing that may come
up later in the episode is that I like this and use it a fair bit to allow
myself to be honest in cases where I would otherwise not feel comfortable
committing to telling the exact truth about a question. I'm curious to hear
more about that. Yeah. I mean, I think I agree that it is, it sort of avoids
communicating in a sense. It is just saying I will not communicate with you
about this. Which is still an honest and use and potentially useful piece of
information, but it also can, but it can also be honest and useful for the same
reason that for the reason I expressed concern. But, and I think this is
something where I have some curiosity about how folks who do practice radical
honesty deal with this is that I often find myself in situations where I would
feel it was much more unethical to commit myself to answering questions where I
couldn't have this out of saying I don't, I, I, I pre-commit not to answering
questions of this form. For instance, if someone has like conveyed something
private to me or might not have, then like even saying, you know, whether they
have told me some secret might be potentially damaging. And so I like
generally don't answer questions about things that people have told me in
confidence. Yeah, I'm trying to think of an example, and I don't know if this fits
exactly. And now I'm trying to think of a way to say a secret someone told me
recently without like, maybe this isn't the best way to talk about this. Let me
go back a bit. First of all, the thing that I liked about Western within,
within reasons take on radical honesty is that this is kind of a performing like
radical honesty is an act of vulnerability that you can share with people who
have consented to share it with you. I like that a lot. And that helped me kind
of get at my like moral problems around radical honesty. Because I think it's,
it's like usually the standard cultures default that people, you know, don't
tell the truth. You're not supposed to tell the truth about certain things. And
you learn what those are at a young age, which things are faux pas versus not.
And you're not allowed to ask about them, ask which ones are which after a
certain age, because one of the norms is that you can't find out what the norms
are after a certain point. I'm sympathetic to radical honesty on that point. But I
do have the sort of, I have a game theoretic concern for lack of a better
term that's kind of related to what Wes said that I'll get to. But I'm, I do
want to hear more of this, Jess.
Real quick, I want to plug Wes's blog post is titled Not So Radical Honesty on
livingwithnreason.com.
Yeah, we'll link to it in the show notes too. And to Brad.
Blunt.
Brad. Blanton.
Blood Brinton. No.
You, you mentioned that Wes seem regards part of the practice of radical
honesty as a trust thing.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's how I see it too. It's kind of with my friends, partners and people that I
know are kind of on the same page as me in regard to wanting to actually hear
the truth. Because I think that's important. A lot of people actually don't
want to be told the truth. And I remember when I was in art school, we would
do critique. And I remember kind of like being confused at some of the people
that were not able to take criticism at all. And then I remember having like a
few works that I did that I worked really hard on that I thought were great
and like getting really like actually like taking it personally when somebody
would say, I think the hand anatomy there is wrong. And I was like, no, I
can't possibly be wrong. I used reference picture. So something looks off
about it. And like, you know, you're wrong. Oh, wait, I'm getting defensive.
Yeah, this like resistance to feedback is something that sort of confuses me. I
think I have always been very like pro receiving feedback. And at one point I
considered making a t-shirt with a QR code to my anonymous feedback page and
just wearing it around town. I have not in fact done that after some friends
strongly urged me not to. But I generally try and solicit a lot of feedback
from strangers. But my read based on the rate at which people send in feedback
to that form is that most people are very much not actively seeking feedback
or not looking to self improve in that particular manner. Drake, don't forget
that that sounds like a good website to plug at the end of the episode or now
in the yes. Okay, in that case, admonimus.co. That's a portmanteau of
anonymous admiration and admonishment. Yes. But if you want a maybe more
stable solution, you can just create a Google form that says give me feedback
here. Admonimus.co slash Drake is my personal one. If anyone listens to this
episode and decides that they have thoughts on my voice or my opinions or
anything else about me. And mine, if you have opinions, if you want to
anonymously share opinions about Drake that you don't want to Drake to know
about, mine is admonimus.co slash gray, G-R-A-Y. Excellent. I'm going to make
one too after I heard about, well, I didn't know this was a thing until we
were kind of doing the post episode chat. And first of all, that made me
especially happy that you were the people that are on this episode.
Admonimus.co slash Jess currently doesn't exist. So if you make it before
this episode is released, you're probably safe.
Oh, well, I mean, I will try to do that. But can you can you check it? Can you
check Phoenix Drake as long as we're here? Yep. I just made one and it is
called Phoenix. Oh, sweet. H-O-E-N-I-X. All right. So got a got a corner of
the market on those nice short strings. Yeah, and I'll put those in the
show notes too. Yay. I can't wait. But yeah, I've noticed that most people seem
not very interested in this either on the receiving or the sending end. And I'm
curious if other people have thoughts on why this is or how to make other
people provide you with honest feedback. Okay. Well, first of all, I think the
vulnerability thing comes into play pretty hard. You don't want randos coming
up and giving you feedback generally. I mean, maybe you do, but maybe I do. I
think a lot of the time when you're just trying to go to the grocery store, you
know, you're doing whatever you do in your life. And if someone came up to
you and was like, Hey, your voice is annoying. And also, did you know your
socks don't match? And you're wearing three times more makeup than is
appropriate. And yeah, if someone just approaches you in public and starts
telling you all these things, you're going to be off put. Excuse me. Who the
hell are you? Like, I don't care about feedback from people that I don't care
about. I like dressed goth or just Lolita for a while because this was me
sending a signal that Hey, if you're the kind of person that thinks this is cool,
or interesting, you can come talk to me. And if you are weirded out by this, then
don't come near me. That's, I don't know, I guess, visually the best way I
could. Yeah, I think the use case that I imagine these sort of feedback forms,
the sort of social role that I imagine them filling is people who are not so
on board with radical honesty that they can walk up to you and let you know
that Yes, this thing looks terrible on you or such and such. But where there
might be information that you do want to know, even if they aren't comfortable
