saying it to your face. And I feel like I have there are things which I am
sufficiently uncomfortable with telling people directly that if everyone had
these forms, I would use them a lot. And I expect that I'm not like I expect
that I'm reasonably typical in how many such opinions I hold of people, but
maybe not in how willing I would be to tell them and not anonymously. Something
this is reminding me of is I used I had a tumbler for four or five years. I'm
not sharing the URL. It's old. And I remember a lot of people would. Well,
that there's some anonymous feedback that you can turn on or off. And there was
definitely a level of abuse that you would start to hit. That was kind of if
you became really popular, if you had a lot of followers, then you start
attracting a lot of anonymous abuse, just regardless of what your political
opinions are, what kind of whether your content creator, I guess, if you have
anything objectionable, people will find you and abuse you. Yeah, should be
something that I would worry about. Although one thing to note about tumblers
platform for people who are not familiar is that it's anonymous feedback can be
replied to and made public. So you sometimes can do this with a performative
aspect and hope that you bug the person you are talking to enough that they
reply to it and thereby make you famous. That actually connects to I think what
I think is a big part of people's general resistance to using anonymous
feedback forms that are not like that. And is it there's not a lot of sense of
like, like closing the loop on this interaction, you like you just submit a
thing and it just sort of goes into a pile and then you don't know what
happens with it. And then I think also there's a bit of a, at least for me,
even when it feels like real feedback, I still feel kind of passive aggressive
by using the system.
Sorry, I think that may be a an artifact right now of how much of how
comparatively socially rare it is. If there were a default, if there were an
expectation that you could communicate directly with anybody and share
uncomfortable truths or whatever, anonymously, I think that people would
do a pretty good job of separating them and that the overall throughput of
personal communication would increase.
For me, it's probably the case that anytime someone sends me anonymous
feedback, I would be just as happy or happier to receive it directly from
them, but that I assume other people's preferences are such that they prefer to
send it anonymously versus in person. And I would rather receive it
anonymously than not at all. And on the other side of it, if there's something
I'm not comfortable telling someone at all, even if it's passive aggressive to
or sort of at least it is passive, to tell them this thing anonymously that
I'd rather do that than just leave them in the dark.
Phoenix, I was going to ask what you meant when you said that you feel passive
aggressive, by which you feel passive aggressive by commenting on someone
else's or by creating a comment box for someone else to put comments in.
I'm putting comments on someone else's. And I think, I don't know, I'm trying to put
my finger on why that is exactly. I think because it's not an interaction and
that it's like sort of, it's a one way thing that it, this is the kind of thing
that is like people often resort to using this when they want to do a thing
that like they don't feel like they could do face to face because it's passive
aggressive or like because or like they want to be aggressive, but not in a way
that actually requires an interaction. And for some reason, my brain just sort
of jumps to that is like, okay, I have to actively choose to not be doing that
when interacting with this.
Drake, I was going to ask if, as the user of Admonimus, is there a way that you
can reply to feedback? Or is it just kind of a one way stream?
You can do this sort of indirectly by saying, if you want me to reply to you,
leave me some contact info. But yes, there it's designed for ease of leaving
feedback, which means that there is no login or other way to store who you are
when you leave feedback, other than to say, I am this person. I would love it if
there was an easy way to make like a temporary, you know, like an additional
obscure email or do some clever cryptographic scheme. But in practice,
I think any way of doing this is too much hassle to expect anyone to follow
through with.
As long as you're talking about it, though, you should explain the feedback
compensation procedure that you and I developed. Leave leave a charity.
I'm not sure I remember this.
Oh, so I'm putting this up because Drake asked Drake solicited my help coming
up with it for his own Admonimus. If one of the the things that you'd like to
do is encourage people to leave novel feedback. So Drake's got a notice,
which I'm copying after contributing to its writing that says, if you give
me novel personal feedback that I've not encountered before and name a charity,
I will donate $5 to it.
I love that. Yeah, that's that's a good addition.
If anybody wants to make a new social network, I was just thinking I would
totally join a website that's like Facebook, but it's specifically for
replying or sharing your feedback that you receive from other people in your
comments. If you want to be all trendy and get on the blockchain, there's mines.
There's what?
There's a blockchain based social networking site called mines. I don't
actually know much about it, except that it's blockchain based, but it does exist.
I know there's also, I don't know if it still exists, but probably the
blockchain based dating website Luna. Is it called Luna?
Oh, yes, it is. Although I think it was it was once functional enough that I
made a profile on it, but no longer seems to be in that state.
The website exists, but is not loudly proclaiming where you can go sign up.
So I take it that it is in a state of hiatus at best.
I signed up for the beta. I don't imagine it would still be in beta.
I don't know. Google shopping was in beta for like 10 years.
So I want to take a second and
possibly jump back to the main topic here.
I appreciated this side track about Admonimus, but I think there's still more
good stuff to say about, like, I especially want to hear about how people
actually implement honesty in their own lives and like ways that differs from
these systems that these people have written about.
I have my own question. I know of other social communication protocols,
including the one that I usually use.
So I will get in a question somewhere about how it compares.
Jess, or, you know, I could just do that here since I've set it up already.
Jess, how do you find, what do you see radical honesty comparing to operating
under Crocker's rules?
Can you summarize what that means?
Crocker's rules for means that you've agreed not to,
you are agreeing not to respond in strong negative ways to any information
that people provide you in the hope that you will get more honest
information than if people filtered for the filtered against the risk
of insulting or otherwise upsetting you.
To quote, declaring yourself to be operating by Crocker's rules means that
other people are allowed to optimize their messages for information,
not for being nice to you.
Yeah. So it's, it's not a license. It's not, it, it doesn't enable sending
possibly insulting information in the way that a weak man of radical honesty
seems like it might, but it does mean that you have licensed other people
to not worry about insulting you.
I think that I would be down for trying that as a social experiment with my
circle of friends and then maybe expanding it if it seems to work out well.
I just, I kind of feel like the way I would do radical honesty is
there's a contract between me and this other person that you're not going to
use this as a form of abuse.
And if I see somebody like breaking that contract, then it's like, well,
you've lost the privilege to do radical honesty with me.
That's how I would respond to like the Comteon issue of like, what if,
you know, someone's looking for the Jews hidden in your basement?
Right. Like clearly that, no, not doing it with you, but even just like some
random that I haven't met or gotten close enough to yet, um,
I don't know if this is going to be some sociopath who just gets off on
insulting people. Those exist. So they're not that common, but, uh,
I would want to do it in my, in my like circle of trust of confidants.
And maybe if it became more widely known and accepted, uh,
outside of that, but.
So how large is this circle of trust? Like what's,
what's around the threshold to,
to reach this point where sort of you are,
you're treating this person as someone who can engage in radical honesty, um,
and be trusted with honest feedback.
Uh, honestly, I tell them,
I'm someone who likes to tell the truth. Uh,
I like receiving direct criticism and if you would like to also do that,
like, I feel like I have a better way of phrasing this when I meet people.
It's just that a brain scatter Sunday. Basically. Yeah.
I check with the other person like, Hey,
does this form of conversation sound appealing to you and would you like to do
it? And if they seem down for it, then that's a, like,
that's basically it.
Yeah. I, um,
found this page describing crackers rules and, uh,
the sentence crackers rules means that you have accepted full responsibility for
the operation of your own mind. If you're offended, it's your fault. Uh,
I just appreciate how much that is in line with the courage to be disliked.
The whole thing that I'm sure we'll talk about on another episode because I keep
wanting to, but, um,
that does sound like it. That I've,
I'm grateful for the copy of that that you gave me and I have been flipping
through it and I like it. Excellent.
We'll eventually get to the courage to be disliked episode in,
in terms of, uh, like, who do you, who does,
who does each of us are like, who does one do this with?
Um, I liked, uh, some things from West's article again,
that this is especially important for
intimate relationships and like personal relationships that like are ongoing.
Um, and is, uh,
in the explicit list of exceptions for like, where it is not actually like
ethically like important that you stay honest,
uh, include coercive relationships where like,
if you're in a relationship where you don't have a lot of choice about being in
that relationship, um,
whether one of the examples he gives is employment because employment is
coercive in some ways. Um,
or like if you're in an abusive relationship that you're trying to get out of
or like a family relationships are a little bit coercive sometimes in that
like your brother is your brother and won't stop being your brother for any
reason. Um,
and that in, in relationships where you're stuck there,
uh, it can be acceptable to use dishonesty,
but it's really best to save that for like trying to exit the relationship as
like a way to protect yourself. Um,
and like only if, if you like really have to,
like if you really like can't get out of this relationship at all, uh,
and you like need to use dishonesty to protect yourself,
then maybe you can like use it in an extended fashion,
but we should be generally skeptical of,
uh, our motivation to do that because people tend to
round in that direction pretty frequently when they shouldn't, uh,
being, being dishonest when like thinking they have to be dishonest in an extended
fashion when really they either don't have to,
or they should be leaving the relationship.
Yeah. One,
one frame that I thought was interesting in this blog post is sort of honesty as
consent and sort of like that if someone is being honest with you,
then you have this, there's nothing that you are sort of having this interaction
with them without having consented to some fact about them that you don't know.
And a relevant quote to, um,
this notion of someone who's in a horse or relationship with you is that, um,
once a person has been dishonest with an intimate partner and refuses to correct
their dishonesty,
that person has robbed their partner of the ability to consent to continue the
relationship. The only ethical choice is to end it. Yeah.
Yeah. I really liked that framing.
I agree. This, this, um,
people's tendency to rationalize dishonesty in this sense is a,
a definite blind spot at the,
there's a definite tilt in priors in favor of this being an acceptable exception
to telling the truth, um, for a lot of people, a lot of the time,
