but I have,
I guess I have weaker priors than a lot of people about the honesty of the
general population. So I guess the, while,
while I'm sympathetic to the offering a conspiracy, uh,
paradigm where you, you open with trust in that fashion,
sometimes that's too costly to justify. Um,
where I think about it in the other direction is, and this,
this is going to sound like a very dismal view of the world and I'm aware that
it is.
And the reason I like dealing with other rationalists is that I don't have to
think about this very often,
but there are enough people who benefit by dishonesty that a,
an excessively comfortable habit of honesty with default,
with the default person may, uh,
render you vulnerable in a way that you aren't willing to be.
Um, so I, I, I,
I'm going to tie together two bits of Harry Potter and the methods of rationality
to try to explain this. Um,
and when Harry meets Snape and reflects on a lecture he got from Professor
Quirrell about just first level deception, lying, no,
I didn't take the cookie out of the cookie jar.
Second level deception, uh,
when a parent hoping that they can catch the child breadhanded and thereby get
some greater repentance would lie about believing that the cookie was not taken
from the jar.
And then you can get third levels of deception where you want your second level
deceiver to think that they successfully fooled you and so on.
It gets really, really complicated after about three levels. Um,
that that's, that's part one. You do, there,
there's deception and deception about deception.
It's a complicated enough subject that you need the,
it behooves you to be up on it. Um,
the second half of this is, uh,
Lucius's remembered lecture to Draco about the rule of three,
where any plan that requires more than three things to happen is doomed to
failure. And since only an idiot would come up with a plan that was literally as
complicated as possible, the real maximum is two.
So my, my philosophy on that is that, uh,
so you,
it seems imprudent to be as defenseless as possible against other people's
deception. First level deception is inadequate to protect you from deception.
Second level deception only protects you from people who can't protect themselves.
So, and since it seems foolish to be as defenseless as you can breathe,
as you think you can get away with, the real minimum is third level.
So I think if you, if you,
if you're in a business that requires this kind of thing where like,
there's all, I don't know, like politics is the obvious example.
If you're in a situation where there's like a lot of backstabbing,
just sort of like in the nature of the work you're doing, um,
I think that you're going to often end up in situations where like an
interaction is coercive in some way, um,
or like you're having to do things sort of in self-defense,
which is the, one of the other examples West gives of like when sometimes you,
you have to do this and it's to like defend yourself or someone else.
So like, like with the murderer coming to your house example and that I
personally solve this by just like,
like I just hate being in those kinds of situations and I avoid them really hard.
Uh, I would,
I would be a terrible politician for example,
and I would never want to do that kind of work. I,
and maybe this puts me at some kind of disadvantage,
but I think that the life that I live instead is pretty good.
Yeah. That's exactly what I was going to say.
The examples that Gray was talking about, um,
or the, I guess illustrations from, uh, methods of rationality are kind of part
of, or like a large part of why I want to do it in general is just that I don't
want to have to keep all these levels of deception in my head.
I'm not good at it. Uh, yeah, there's,
keeping secrets. I suck at telling lies and it's exhausting it.
If other people want to do it, then like that's their choice.
I'd rather not be in a relationship with them. Yeah,
there's a post they probably don't want to be in a relationship with me.
There's a post by, um,
Eliezer Yudkowski, um,
talking about honesty, um,
and sort of about glomeralization and ways to never emit literally false
statements, um, in which he says it's good for your soul. Um,
and that I think resonates with me that it feels more,
um,
that it feels like there is some deep level on which, like, um,
I'm just more comfortable with myself if I am in situations where I can just be
honest with everyone that I'm talking to, um,
which for me is most situations, um,
when I'm talking to close friends and such. Um, but yeah,
and these more coercive environments like with, um,
for me as someone in college right now, um,
dealing with like school forms and things,
there are boxes where I need, it is expected that I say this thing and it is not
expected that it be true,
but I have to emit certain word patterns and I don't know how to feel about that.
I agree with, I agree with the assessment that it's, uh,
that a world in which I,
you didn't have to keep track of up to three minimum three levels of deception
at once would be strictly superior,
but it's not the problem that I have with this as with, uh,
fixing a lot of social norms is that this is very nearly and evolutionarily
stable strategy. Um, if when,
when the baseline includes these various levels of deception,
there's a limit to how far you can get without participating.
Yeah. I like,
I have in my notes that I'm tempted to say that, uh,
living with as much honesty as possible is like actually better for most people,
but I, I suspect I have some motivated reasoning there and that, uh,
dishonesty for me personally is just very difficult and very uncomfortable.
Yeah. I don't know that it's necessarily the best strategy for everybody in the,
in the vein of never telling, never issuing specifically false statements.
And I'm sure Eliezer is aware of this one because he's read enough fantasy,
but I actually learned about it from Steven. Um,
the Isidae in the wheel of time who are prevented from ever saying anything
that's specifically untrue.
So dealing with them is incredibly frustrating because they have long lives
and they've a good chunk of their communication is spent cultivating ways to
disguise the exact truth without ever having to say anything specifically false.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, go ahead, Jess.
I was thinking I was just brought in mind of packed,
which was the web serial that the author of worm wrote after worm that takes place
in a world where magic exists and magic users and magic creatures are forbidden
from telling lies, but not from hiding the truth.
So a lot of the stories based around the difficulties of having to live like that.
Yeah. That's the kind of thing that appeals to you.
I might, I mean, I, I've seen enough good from wild bow to have strong priors
about its quality. So I will have to pick that up.
I think an important part of the way I see honesty here is interacting with
someone in a way that's intended to give them a wrong idea,
even if you're never saying anything that's false is also dishonesty,
that it's about like whether you want the person to have like correct ideas
in their brain or not.
It's sort of at the core of the spirit of it, I think.
That seems like a reasonable assessment.
Um, that there's certainly plenty of discourse on whether allowing someone
a false belief is different from lying.
And I get always get the feeling that it's extremely self-serving to insist
that there's a difference, but yeah.
I guess in this case, I'm just sort of like defining dishonesty.
I think I'm mostly just stealing this from Wes honestly,
but defining dishonesty as a term to include lying and also these other things
that make people believe false things.
Yeah, withholding the truth or saying things that are technically true,
but misleading.
Yeah.
Something else that I forgot to bring up when I was going through
the original descriptions of radical honesty.
Blanton's idea of radical honesty includes compulsive truth as in
you're not supposed to just say nothing either.
If a thought comes to mind, you're supposed to say it.
I remember, I think it was like there was a magazine article.
It might have been time or something where I think it was with him or somebody else.
It was a famous radical honesty user and they were saying, yeah, you know,
if I walk in the office and I see a woman with nice tits, I'd be like, hey,
nice tits or like things that clearly like people.
I forget the way Wes phrased this.
Maybe you remember, but it was something like actually a lot of people don't
want to just have you spewing the truth at them.
Like either it's annoying or it's TMI.
Or that there are contexts where you just really don't need specific truths
presented to you right now.
Yeah.
Like the line from the summary section of the bottom of Wes's article is
where a person does not own honesty, there's no need to be honest with them.
That like if someone doesn't want to know something, you're not like violating
their boundaries by not telling them the thing they don't want to know.
Yeah.
I like that framing of radical honesty as telling people like things that you
think that they would want to know.
Or I don't know that that's because it generalizes to so many other situations
in life.
Poker seems like a good example of that.
That's not a case where anybody's expected to send honest signals.
Everyone expects to be lied to and everyone knows that everyone expects
them to be lying to them.
So the, yeah, there simply isn't any force pushing in the direction of
honesty in a case like that.
Yeah.
And I think like entering a situation like that where like everyone knows
that this is literally a game about lying.
Like obviously that's what you're in for.
You shouldn't expect people to be doing this.
I wanted to say something about the thing we were just talking about of only
telling people things that you think they want to hear and that my personal
version of that, I take that a little bit further in that if I think someone
would want to know something, I feel like I have to have a really good reason
to hide it from them to not tell them.
And that I think, hopefully I'm not misconstruing Wes's position here,
but that in that kind of situation, at least according to Wes's rules,
you can also just decide whether you want them to know.
But I just feel like I'm hiding things from people all the time.
If I don't have like a slightly higher standard for that of telling people
things, I think they would want to know even if I'm a little bit uncomfortable
with telling them.
How about like, for example, you have a friend who's just really obnoxious
at parties and their voice is very loud and they talk over everyone.
And you think that they probably are going to get hurt if you tell them,
hey, like this thing that you're doing kind of sucks and I wish you'd stop.
But then also you notice that this person has been going like,
why don't people like me?
That's one of those cases where I think it's a bit where you have to kind of gauge,
is this the kind of person that can hear feedback and will not take it personally,
but will realize that I am their friend and I want to help them improve at something
and that they will want to improve at that thing?
Or is this somebody who's just going to get defensive about it,
