up a giant room, right? Yes, it's almost as powerful as your smartphone. As far as the ELO
rating and the number of CPUs, there's a nice little graph on the Wikipedia page for AlphaGo,
which will be linked to in the episode description on the website. We love Wikipedia.
It's great. Oh yeah, we defended Wikipedia a few weeks ago. Wikipedia is great. You know,
largely dominated by three different AI systems that are continually scouring themselves looking for
I had no clue. It's a self-learning algorithm, because what happens is they, when it tries to
predict, oh, somebody just vandalized something. And then you, the human says, you were right,
or you were wrong. And the algorithm warns over time how to predict what is vandalism or not.
And they've gotten extremely good. That's awesome. Just take that Wikipedia critics.
So is there anything else you want to cover for Groundwork or should we dive into the games?
I guess the biggest thing that's important to know for this new match is that the match
a couple months ago where AlphaGo, an earlier version of AlphaGo played against a former European
champion, that player is, so he's very good, but he's- Hold on. Let's give the thing a few
seconds. The match a couple months ago against the former European champion, he's a great player,
but he's several ranks lower. He's a substantially less strong player than Lisa at all. He's ELO's
lower? Yeah, like let's put it this way. If the two of them were to play, he would get several
stones. He would get a handicap of several stones. He would get several moves in a row as a,
just an advantage to try to make it more fair because Go is an extremely skill testing game.
So somebody who's a stronger player can require, they can overcome a great disadvantage in the game.
Someone told me that time is important in Go games, that the different moves are timed,
impacts your score. How does that work? So the rules they were playing under, the Chinese rules,
I guess you, each person has two hours of clock time and whenever it's their turn, their clock is
going down. And when they run out of time, they now have one move, I'm sorry, one minute per move,
and they also have three overtime periods. So they can basically, they can go over three times,
they get three bonus minutes, but then you, if you ever run out of time, you just lose.
Does that automatically benefit a computer player?
One might think, I mean, the computer never misses its move and always takes enough, like takes
however much time it has available, or that it thinks is a good idea to do, and that always
makes the perfect amount based on what it thinks. But as we may find out, humans have a way of,
there's a little bit of human ingenuity that not every computer is ready for.
So yeah, the match a couple months ago was 5-0 in favor of AlphaGo, and this was right on the
heels of AlphaGo defeating the best Go computers in the world, 499-1. And I actually ran it back,
it was 500-0 the next time, but played against the European champion defeated in 5-0, and people
analyzing the game afterwards were impressed that a Go program could be this good, but they were not
impressed compared to world-class players, and going into the match against Lee Sedol,
many of the top Go players predicted that it would be a landslide, that it would be,
there was at least a 95% chance that Lee Sedol would win, and when they asked Lee Sedol actually
before the match his prediction, he said it would be a landslide, he would win 5-0, 4-1 at most.
Sounds like they need some more practice assigning probabilities to their beliefs.
How did Lee Sedol's predictions update after being crushed?
AlphaGo got a lot better in the meantime.
Google tried telling them that it got a lot better, but I think he had a sort of anchoring
bias of how much could a human possibly improve in that amount of time, and he did not take
into consideration that it's not learning at the same rate as humans. Is that interestingly,
from what I saw, the less wrong community was substantially more accurate with regards to
their predictions of how things would go now, they did not necessarily nail it exactly, but I
think that their market was much better. As far as I know, what I saw, it was much closer to
a 55-45 or 50-50, where there's a lot more benefit to the doubt given that Google would not be
setting this up if AlphaGo wasn't ready. Let's go into game one, when everyone was still thinking
that this was going to be an even fight. Well, not everyone, the less wrong community, the humans,
many of the humans thought it was going to be a landslide for the humans. Game one, Lee Sedol
used a slightly exploitive strategy. There's ways that you can play against computer programs in
many games to get an advantage because of things that the computers are notoriously bad at understanding,
and he took a strat. He made a couple moves, one move in particular, early on, that it was fine.
It wasn't like it was a bad move. It was just not a move that you would normally make against another
world-class player, but he wanted to just punish the AI because no computer programs could ever
normally be good at this sort of thing. The end result was that they played a long drone out game
in which AlphaGo played extremely impressively throughout, and eventually that minor weakness
early on ended up causing him to lose. Lee Sedol actually was defeated by AlphaGo, but the match
itself was very deceptive with regards to AlphaGo's true capabilities, because even though it won,
it won by a tiny margin, and it made a number of plays near the end of the game that a number
of people watching thought were evidence that AlphaGo isn't actually very good. It was making
these weak plays, but in reality AlphaGo doesn't care about the margin that it wins, and once it's
actually seen a path, it will be contempt with whatever. It just wants to maximize its chances
of winning, not its margin of victory. So instead of going for one more point to increase the margin,
it will get it down to as little as possible if that will give it just 0.01% greater chance of
winning in the end. That reminds me of that Star Trek episode that I saw a clip of the old school
Star Trek where Spock and Kirk are playing chess, and Spock wins, or excuse me, no, Kirk wins,
and Spock's like, oh, I forgot to take into account that you would be irrational and stuff during
the game, and it's like, it's not irrational if I won, and that's where it is with AlphaGo. You're
right. It doesn't care. It's like, I won. It doesn't matter how big of the margin it was.
We'll talk about Spock at length later, but I didn't watch any of the games I'm planning on it.
Maybe once I get some more background on, I've only played like two or three games of Go in my
life, but I did read a lot of the commentary post per game, and everybody was saying, yeah, after
game one, like, oh, yeah, Lee's got this next time, no problem. Absolutely. The popular wisdom,
I guess, was there's no question this program has improved a lot. It's going to, you can
underestimate it. Lee Sedol's problem was the underestimated it. He also didn't play his
best game ever. He was just coming off of another match, and he didn't have the full amount of rest,
and there was every bit of making excuses, and every bit of, well, Lee's just going to tighten
up his game. He's going to play a much more, you know, he's going to take the things he's learned,
and they actually asked Lee Sedol after the game, what is your prediction of the match now?
And he said that AlphaGo has, it's incredible. He's very, very impressed. AlphaGo has improved a
great deal. However, he will beat AlphaGo most likely. His hope is that he thinks it'll be about,
you know, he said about 50-50 at this point, now that he's down a game, and they're putting
best three out of five for a million dollars, and Lee Sedol is getting 150k just for playing,
and then 20k for each win. And in game two, game two rolls around. This time,
the rolls are switched. And to give an idea of, and go, whoever goes first, the way that they're
playing actually has to make up a seven and a half point handicap, because of just how strong
an advantage going first is. However, because of the seven and a half point handicap, going first
is actually slightly worse. Seven points would be too much, seven and a half is too much the other
way, so it ends up just being like a tiny edge for whoever is going second.
And the second game AlphaGo went first. In the second game, AlphaGo is playing the slightly weaker
position, and they play out their game, and in move 37, basically. Just to be clear, the slightly
weaker position being AlphaGo went first. Yes. Okay. Yes. And the burden is on whoever goes first
to generate action. Whoever goes first has to make up this disadvantage, and so there's a
little bit of pressure on them to make things happen. Move 37, like this is, that is the moment that,
I mean, I feel like the number 37 with regards to AI is going to be significant for years to come
because of move 37 here, but move 37 was the least human move, like a move that was so inhuman that
it shocked the Go community watching. It was the sort of move that 14-year-old Go players know not
to make. I heard that Lee got up and walked out of the room since then, like 15 minutes
starting to figure out what the hell just happened. Well, I mean, at first he was just in shock, and
then he ended up running to the restroom, and I don't know, they said he was just washing his face
and trying to get his composure, you know, like, like it was just sort of a, I don't know what's
going on, how nobody would ever make this move. And in fact, AlphaGo said that there is a less than
one 10,000 chance that a human would make the move, which it takes an enormous amount of evidence
to make AlphaGo want to overcome that bias. However, it was very confident that it had a better
move and that humans would not make it normally, but it thought it was better. And part of the way
that AlphaGo evaluates these things is that it plays, it does Markov simulations over and over
and over again, where it'll play out the game with many, many different possibilities and then
average them together over time to try to get an understanding of the position. It, you know, in this
case, found a path that it was confident was better than what humans would do, and it knew that the
human, you know, they knew just looking at the readout, oh, they're going to be, and you can
actually see the guy, the, one of the, the Google people who was there making the moves,
who's a very high, very strong go player in his own right, the, the rise smile on his face when
he made the move. And actually the commentators watching were just like, sure that this was a
mistake, like in some way where they were just like, what? I remember since none of us had this
information at the time, I was like on a 15, 20 minute delay, but when I heard about it, that's
when I first texted you. And I was like, so is this a glitch in AlphaGo? Did they just bug out
on us? Like no one knew, they couldn't say at the time. And over the course of the next, you know,
for the next hour or so, people were convinced, well, this is evidence that AlphaGo is not actually
that good. See, see Lee Sedol is going to win for sure. And then over time, it was like, well,
based on our sort of heuristics, our sort of evaluations of the board, it seems like Lee
Sedol is winning, but it's really confusing. And then it started seeming like he was winning by
smaller amounts. And eventually they're just, you know, they're asking the guy to, to, you know,
kind of score, like, what does it look like the score is? And he's like, I, I don't know. I mean,
I mean, I guess Lee Sedol is up by conventionally, you would say Lee Sedol is up by like 20, but like,
there's this, this, this, this, this, there's a bunch of different areas that are very confusing
and unresolved. And so depending on how they turn out, and it's just very strange. You know,
I think at one point he actually mentioned, if AlphaGo actually wins this, it is over for, I
mean, it's like, there's no way that this can be like, if this is Go strategy, then I don't even
know Go strategy. I remember a Lesseron commenter saying that this may be evidence after, after the
win happened, this may be evidence that humans just can't play against machines. It's not a, a,
the same level of thinking. Yeah, this is the one where it's like, if this is actually a winning
line, then I don't know that there are any good human Go players. So long time later, eventually
it becomes clear AlphaGo is going to grind out a small advantage. And he even made some slack moves,
some moves that seemed weak, like in that earlier game, that were actually just evidence, you know,
at one point it was like, see, maybe this means that AlphaGo is just off its rocker. And the other
guy's like, no, actually this, that's evidence that AlphaGo has already won. And the, the end
result was Lee being defeated by, by this very strange position. And with a move that no human
has ever made, I mean, nobody could see that. I mean, it was just so bizarre. It's actually very,
very strategically sound. It's just so like the humans making new moves will often build on variations
of patterns in previous games and try minor experimentation. This was so different of a way
than humans would normally play that humans is very unlikely that human would just try going
down this path because it's so unusual, so unlike any previous patterns. And after game two, they
asked Lisa at all, what is your prediction of the match now? And he said, it is my greatest hope to
win a game. Can we fast forward to game four? Absolutely. Well, does game three have anything,
does game three have anything? I was, I was really eager to hear about game four too,
but I want to, let's game three have a lot of highlights. Let's do game three too. Yeah, no.
So game three, and I'll make it more brief, I apologize for implying on, AlphaGo is a hero of
mine. I am intensely interested. Game three, Lisa actually just played a very, very,
like two strengths and played a very, I'm not going to try anything crazy. I'm going to play a
good disciplined game. I'm going to, and he tried steering AlphaGo in a direction that was the sort
of going towards the very, very nebulous situations where it's just too hard to calculate what the
end result is. How does AlphaGo do in a situation where AlphaGo has no chance of being of the brute
force? And AlphaGo just played a remarkable game that was, it just seemed like despite the fact that
Lee Sedol played a nearly flawless game, like just an absolutely incredible level game, he still
lost. And it was like afterwards they asked, they were like, so what, what did he do different?
What should he have done different? Where was his wonder? And they're like, I don't even know that
there's anything I'd point to that it's like I would do different in the future, but it just ended
up in a bad spot. Like how can you, how can you know? And it was, it was just, you know, and Lee was,
Lee Sedol was devastated, but it was clear that the computer could in fact play from situations
that require sort of an intuitive estimate of what it would look like. And then we go to game four.
So at that point, after game three, the computer had won, AlphaGo had won, because it was the best
three out of five situation. And that meant that how much prize money went to Google?
Actually, Google donated the money either way, but they donated the million dollars to charity.
Just a million dollars.
Yeah, actually, one million and 40,000 or something. It's also 20k per game.
And then the last two games are just for 20k, but Lee Sedol is playing for pride. I mean, this is
like, this is just blowing his mind. We actually counseled with his teammates and friends who are
some of the best go players in the world to try to devise a strategy. They had a little bit of rest
and that, you know, they were trying to come up with how can they possibly do this? Like how can
they possibly try to take a game off of AlphaGo? And he, he actually game four was truly brilliant.
He radically changed his strategy. He, he actually did something that a world-class
go player often would not want to do, which is make the game very all or nothing.
One of the things they realized is that you can't just grind out little advantages
against AlphaGo. You eventually lose and they try to make it instead. Let's just
make it all or nothing where there's going to be one big battle and whoever wins that
will just win decisively the match instead of having it be up in the air, which is a risky
approach, but one that they thought might be given better chances. The, uh, they also realized
that AlphaGo takes the same amount of time, no matter how much time Lisa doll uses.
Actually, after he had already lost game three, he stayed playing for hours just with no clock,
but just studying or like trying to learn more about AlphaGo. And they realized they theorized,
I bet if you just use all your time early on, AlphaGo will not speed up. It'll still take
two and a half minutes per move or whatever. And you can think during AlphaGo's turn.
And so Lisa doll actually used all of his clock as to how he used it all up,
including 35 minutes, his last 35 minutes in the three moves prior to his master stroke in game four,
where he wanted to be sure that he had thought about as much as possible on his clock. And then
he knew that after he pulled off his, this big trap that he had been setting,
AlphaGo was going to have to reevaluate its whole understanding of the game. And he didn't want it
to be doing that. Yeah. He wanted to use as much time to think beforehand and then think on AlphaGo's
time. He set a trap that involves several pieces of the trap being many moves apart so that AlphaGo
would not anticipate them near each other. And he exploited, like he studied some actually about
how Markov simulations work. And they studied a little bit on how to try to find weaknesses
in the thought process of a computer that uses Markov simulations. And one of the things they
realized is that if a move is near lots of really, really bad moves, if it's a long,
convoluted chain that is surrounded by lots of really bad things, it's possible that early on,
you know, if the first thousand times it starts looking down this branch, it looks really bad,
it stops looking down the branch very hard. And so if you make a long, convoluted chain that
involves lots of really bad decisions in the way, it can sometimes miss it. And he made a move that
one of the best go players in the world described as the hand of God, making a move, move 78. And it
