Adventure time, come on, grab your friends, go to the very distant lands, Jake the dog
and Finn the human, the fun will never end, it's adventure time.
Hello, this is the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Katrina Stanton, I'm
Steven Zuber and with us as our guest, Patrick Chapin.
And Patrick, the reason you're here is because you are the person I know who is most into
go and can explain the AlphaGo stuff to us and you also know a lot about AlphaGo itself,
but introduce yourself as what you do, what your effects piece is, that sort of thing.
Okay, my name is Patrick Chapin, I'm a game designer, I'm a professional card player,
game player I guess.
Which card game?
I'm a card game?
I'm a card game?
I studied into a number of other ones including poker, but largely Magic the Gathering.
Oh man, Nerd Alert.
Hey, no.
Absolutely.
The first time I met him, he said I'm a card player and right away this was when the poker
player thing was really big, all the poker players were winning and giving all their
money to EA, well not all of them obviously, but there were a number of big EA donations
from poker players and I was like oh, oh, cause you know at a less wrong meetup, he's
probably one of those guys that plays poker professionally, donates you know three-fourths
of the money to give well.
Yeah, you would assume that.
I would because he said card game and like people who play Magic say I play Magic as
far as I've noticed.
Sometimes it takes a little while to explain context.
You were in a group of nerds dude, everyone there knows Magic.
Dude, I don't know.
Okay.
Like it was a power.
If you say Magic and they're like oh, are you going to pull a rabbit out of your head?
It was like an hour and a half later and you were like oh wait, you played Magic professionally
and you won?
OMG.
So it was kind of cool.
Also, I'm sorry I interrupted you, but not card player, Magic player.
Much more prestigious in this particular circle of listeners.
Magic the Gathering Hall of Famer actually and two-time loser in the finals of the World
Championships.
Oh.
Wow.
You made it further than most people do.
Round of applause.
Oh wow.
Sorry.
I can find the sound effects too.
We can do like a cheer.
Thank you.
I also do video game stuff here in Denver including a lot of work on AI for some of the video
games we make.
Fantastic.
Any video games anyone might have heard of?
Yeah.
Unfortunately, the Art Shadow Dev works.
Gotcha.
Okay.
So we'll have to talk.
But we got some coming soon that we can talk about.
Eternal.
An online card game that I'm really excited about.
So sort of all over the place, but very passionate about AI and games.
Cool.
Okay.
Awesome.
So Patrick, we're just going to throw you right into the fire.
Do you want to explain the recent AlphaGo tournament and kind of give us a little bit
of background there?
Before we begin, the thing that when you explained Go To Me and why it was so difficult for computers
to do, I was really, like I have almost no idea what Go is.
I mean, I know like a few of the basic rules, but I've never played it.
So tell me this whole thing about Go being probability distributions and not knowing
how it's going to end until right near the end.
Yeah.
So Go has long been sort of the final frontier of at the very least perfect information games.
Go is relatively simple.
You just like, for instance, the way they play, there's a 19 by 19 board and then there's
just each side only has one kind of piece.
And there's very few rules to it.
It's actually very, very simple, but the complexity of the game is so just off the charts that
for the majority of time that people have had computers, it's always just sort of been
thought that it might be impossible to have computers be good at the game.
The combination, like the number of different possible board states and games of Go that
you can play on just a 19 by 19 grid is many hundreds of digits more than the number of
different chess games you can meaningfully or 40 move chess games you can meaningfully
play.
So it's it's far, far, far too complex to brute force.
And the strategy, so to speak, the way of thinking about Go is something that is very,
very difficult to put into words for or at least commands for a computer.
Go is often described as a very intuitive game, and you have to sort of just have a
sense of what moves to make and how it might turn out.
And you don't know the consequences necessarily of your actions, you're kind of giving yourself
better chances like you're creating regions, areas where you have some chance of hopefully
getting an advantage of some sort and you have to be able to change what kind of an
advantage you're going for.
But it's it's it's very hard for computers.
How long was this a goal for AI scientists?
Well, 20 years ago, the popular wisdom was that it was impossible to make a program that
could ever be a master level, like a high level human.
Ten years ago, people thought that hopefully by 2050, we would have technology that good.
A year ago, I think people would have said, you know, hopefully within 10 years.
But earlier this year was the first time that a Go program was able to actually defeat a
high level player.
And from there, they set up a match against the 18 time titleist and world champion,
Lisa Dahl, who has been kind of the most iconic Go player of the last many decades.
And that's the the Alpha Go match that recently got a whole lot of buzz.
So I guess this has been the Holy Grail since longer than people thought it was necessarily
possible.
But it really caught the world by surprise to suddenly be here, which we've jumped this
far ahead.
And you mentioned that there's various clouds of probability across the board as to what's
going to happen.
And you have to juggle those that it's really hard for even a grandmaster to tell what the
score is going to be, even as much as a few moves away from the end.
Yeah.
So the, yeah, I mean, it spirals into so many complex trees of possibility.
And it's so hard to know exactly how a region is going to turn out that like even the commentary
for Alpha Go, one of the two commentators in the English dream is the best Western, the
best Western Go player in the world.
And him trying to evaluate the position and figure out is this evenish, is this slightly
better for Alpha Go, is this slightly better for Lisa Dahl, and by, you know, how much
or how likely is it that this battle will work out for Lisa Dahl or Alpha Go?
It's there's a lot of judgment.
It's got a lot more people have sort of a feeling.
Who are the creators of Alpha Go?
So Alpha Go is part of Alphabet, which is functionally Google.
It's actually made by DeepMind, which is a company that Google acquired, like a company
that's been doing AI research for a number of years that Google acquired a couple years
ago.
And one of the people in DeepMind pitched the idea of combining a few different types
of AI systems, a few different types to, to play Go.
And this is, this is actually the 49th, I believe, game that this system, I mean, you
could say Alpha Go has played, but they only call the one that plays Go Alpha Go.
But this system that they've been developing, this is the 49th game that it has learned.
Wow.
It's a general learning algorithm.
It's not actually, they didn't teach them to go strategy.
That's part of the crazy thing is that, yeah, they actually didn't teach it.
That's the thing that, well, that's part of the thing that's so crazy about it is that
it has developed its own strategy and did not get strategic advice from the humans.
I read that there are kind of three different processes and you may be able to eliminate
us on these that they took towards teaching this computer, this program, Go.
They gave it different tools, the strategy, so it's interesting, they trained it a number
of ways.
They, they gave it a bunch of information for improving its, for improving its understanding.
The actual strategy that it chooses isn't actually, I guess I'll walk through it a little.
The first thing that it did is they trained it to identify what humans would do in a given
position and they let it look at millions of games, basically just an enormous number
of human games, tens of thousands of top level games, and I'm not even sure how many other
games, but they let it over and over and over again study sort of using the sort of technology
that allows facial recognition software to learn when a picture has a cat in it or not.
I heard that called a neural network.
Yes, yeah, it has a neural network that is, a neural network is like a series of computing
systems that are hooked up sort of like brain cells and the neural network can be trained
and can learn how to do things better and think about things better without you just
directing it, without you just saying, this is how you should think about it.
You know, like a traditional computing system, you just write out what the logic is.
A neural network can be used to learn about something in a way that is, like you give
it guidelines, but you don't know the way that it's going to end up thinking about it.
And in this case, it learns to predict what a human would do by trying various strategies.
Like there's lots of variations of AlphaGo that are slight mutants of each other that
some of them would predict slightly more this way, some would predict slightly more that way
and have lots and lots of different combinations of ways they would interpret something.
And then they let over time, it's like a general, it's like a learning algorithm that gets better
and better and better and they reproduce, like the ones that successfully guess,
like the part, the brain cells that successfully guess what a human would do are rewarded and get
to reproduce more. And over time, AlphaGo became substantially better at guessing what humans
would do than any other program has ever been just from the amount that they have given it to
work with. Now you mentioned something about there's two neural networks that work together.
So there's actually, there's two main AI systems that it uses. One is the neural network that
evaluates a board where it'll look at the game, the state of affairs right now, and predict what
the human would do. But there's a different part of it that predicts like the probability of winning
based on like what it's learned about games. But that whole system that just evaluates board
positions is only one of the two AIs and they're actually different AI systems that continually
message back and forth with each other over and over and over again. The other one is the policy,
the, it sets the policy, like what moves the computer will make, and it will suggest a variety of
moves. You know, one of the, the baseline is sort of whatever the human would do is sort of believed
to be the starting point. Like if a human would do this half the time, then you should, and that's
the highest percentage move, then that's your starting point of you is to assume that this is
what you should do. Because in general, the computer just assumes the humans are right.
But then it tries a variety of experimentation. It'll try, like it'll pick a random move that
it thinks a human would make, and then it will pick a move that it thinks a human would make from
the other position and just go back and forth giving a, doing a probability distribution of
how likely of a move it thinks it is. And then it plays the game all the way to the end, which takes
like, you know, a few milliseconds and then it rates that and tries over and over and over again
and continues to have the games that it plays in its head inform the, its evaluation of the board.
And each time it's evaluation of the board changes that helps inform which new games to
play in the future. And it does this back and forth tens of thousands of times in a matter of
seconds and decides what move to make. Sounds like some pretty beastly calculations. So how much
processing power is behind that? AlphaGo actually uses thousands of CPUs. I'm not sure how much
the processing power adds up to total, but it's a little over 2000. Like it's, it's very, very,
a lot of power. And actually part of AlphaGo, their team's theory behind it, they eventually
found that they could improve AlphaGo's ELO as a function of how much more processing power they
give AlphaGo. And it starts scaling very dramatically. Like you have to increase the amount of
processing power it takes to get the next 100 ELO points is much larger than the previous 100.
So it actually scales up in kind of a funny way. What does that mean for people who don't really
know what CPUs are? What does that mean in terms of like space? And just to clarify,
ELO was a ranking of how well do you play? Yeah, the, so the processing power for this,
think of it as like thousands of really strong computers and a couple big rooms full of just
computers. So it's definitely the type of thing that it isn't super practical to just download
to your laptop. So you mean like one of those 1960s calculators that was, you know, they would take
