Yeah, all right. Well, super, super happy to be able to have you guys both on because I think
we have some really interesting stuff to talk about. And I figured if you haven't met before,
maybe each person take a couple minutes and just kind of go over your background and interests and
so on. Oh, do you want me to go first, I guess? Sure, go first. So my background for the present
purpose is going to be different from what I tell everybody else unless I've had a beer,
but it's relevant here. So I got interested in science when I was a kid because I was
interested in time and what is it anyway, besides just a letter T that you let get bigger. And so
I majored in physics and halfway through college, I stumbled into Heismann Forster and eventually
became convinced that this was more of a biological or cognitive problem than a pure
physics problem. So I minored in physiological psychology and kind of switched into biophysics.
And then I was going to, I went to Ohio State to do theoretical biophysics with a guy
who had, well, you probably haven't heard of Carl Kornacker, but he was a theoretical
biophysicist. If you go back and look at Waddington's theoretical biology books, you'll see
he's in there as a young man. But then after a while, I became convinced that you really had to
do experiments at some point. So I noticed that the molecular biologists, when they were done,
knew what they had done, whereas the neurophysiologists were still kind of making up stories about
what might have happened when you stuck electrodes into things. And then so I wound up doing molecular
biology. And one of the things that happens, of course, is that once you become an expert in
something, it's very hard to convince you anybody to let you do something else. So these other things
I would continue to be interested in, but it's more of a spare time project. And with regard to
things at the end of my list and going back to the cognitive stuff, I continue to work on that.
And we have a way of parsing language that is essentially using semantics as the syntax can
get no one interested in that. Linguistics in particular, I find a particularly vicious field,
but anyway, it works. And then I think there are implications then as to how you do cognition.
Then that this particular conversation goes back more to the started off with the molecular biology
stuff, where we were, what I wound up doing is working out how sunlight causes skin cancer.
And so one of the things we're finding out now is the number of mutations you have in your skin,
you and me, is totally outrageous. And then the question is why the skin's working at all,
like 100,000 mutations per cell. And so that's what started this conversation off with Mike.
And then that got Mike sent me in some of his papers on organizing things from the top down,
which I kind of appreciate because I'd already read Pate and so forth. Is that how you pronounce
it? Is it Pate? Pate? Anyway, okay. And by the way, Carl Koenacker is the guy who first pointed
me out to, oh great, now I'm going to blank on his name. But the ion channels and development,
which is why one Mike called me up like 12 years ago, I immediately understood what he was doing.
The guy at Purdue. Oh, Jeffy, Lionel Jeffy. Yeah, Lionel Jeffy. Right. So anyway, it sounds
like you guys have overlapping interests, you know, on the one hand from the biology side that
could carry over into experiments with cancer, but demonstrating genetic assimilation kinds of
phenomena in cancer. And two, so one of your proposals for that looks a lot to me like a
physically embodied neural net, although I don't know, I haven't had time to see how literally
one could take it. And then Mike sent me some of your papers, Chris, which I wish I read years ago,
but some of them I'm going to have to read twice and I have some questions for you. But
it again looks like the three of us believe the same things are kind of possible.
It looks to me having seen all this stuff at the same time now that it may be possible to build
from the bottom up in a consistent way that achieves all of these things and do some experiments
to back them up. I could give you more details later if you're interested like the language
stuff, but I don't want to, I don't want to hog up all the time.
Yeah, so, Chris. Interesting. I also started in physics and ended up in molecular biology,
but with a turn in philosophy and then in AI in the middle.
And then basically departed from science altogether for several years
before coming back and taking on some of these much broader kinds of
issues at the borders between physics and cognitive science and biology,
which seems like a very comfortable and interesting place to be right now. It seems like a lot is
happening and that there's a lot of room for putting these different disciplines together
in a productive way. Do you find that people are listening to each other or is it all siloed off?
I think the bulk of academia is still very siloed, but I think there are increasing numbers of cracks
in that siloization. I mean, for example, I think Carl Friston has done a huge service in
breaking down some of the barriers between neuroscience and physics and biology in general
with his work and accumulated, you know, a highly multidisciplinary group around himself.
Start off on that and we'll talk about it. Yeah, sure. So where would you like to start
at the beginning or at the end and work backwards? So you guys, I guess, have already been talking
about the embryo kinds of stuff, right? You know what I could do is ask a question just to make
sure I'm understanding things. So there's this issue about competency, which I now understand
basically means swapping cells around to see if positionally in space to see whether
you get a better phenotypic fitness. One thing I didn't understand from the papers,
whether that swapping is random. Right. So you're talking specifically about this
Shrisha paper that my student Lakshman just put out. So what we were trying to do there is
just determine what does it do to evolution when the components are not purely passive.
So we have a very simple one-dimensional model that basically a one-dimensional axis and there's
a bunch of cells along that axis that have a preferred positional information and you could
either be completely passive and let standard evolutionary algorithms sort them and eventually,
of course, it sorts them. Or you can put in a developmental phase between the genetics and
the phenotype where the cells have tiny little preferences about who their neighbors are.
And so the moving around is not random. It's that every cell has a little bit of a look,
ability to sense who its neighbors are and to be happy or unhappy with who its neighbors are
relative to the positional information. So if I'm a five and my neighbor is a nine,
I know I've got a problem and so on. And the nine knows he has a problem too. And so they have
variable amounts of competency to recognize the problem and try to rectify it during that
developmental phase. And so now the question is when they have this, when you're dealing with
this material, it doesn't just sit where the genome puts it, but actually has the ability to
sort out what happens to evolution. And long story short, what we see happens is that
because evolution, once you have an individual that's a little bit sorted and evolution has a
hard time, selection has a hard time knowing whether you're sorted because your genome was
amazing or whether the genome was so-so, but your competency was good and you sorted yourself out,
it ends up not being able to see the best genomes, but rather doing more work on the
competency gene, which then makes the problem even worse, that hides even more information
from selection. And that sort of ratchets up. And eventually you get to something like a planarian
where the genomes are basically junk and the algorithm is so good that it almost doesn't
matter what the genome is, it will sort itself out in the right way, which is what we see in
planaria. And then other organisms are, they do some of that, but not as well as planarious,
there are clearly some factors that prevent this thing from ratcheting all the way
in every lineage. But that's kind of, yeah, that's, I mean, that's just it. It was this,
you know, this question of what does, what implications for evolution of the competency
of these things? And can we explain, and can we explain this amazing fact that planaria,
so, so planaria, right? The most, the most disorderly genome, and yet highly, you know,
perfectly regenerative, no cancer, no aging, you know, no, no mutants, right? There's no such thing
as a planarian mutant line, the way that you have with Drosophila and mouse and C. elegans, no, no,
the only abnormal line of planaria you will ever see is our two headed line. And those are not
genetic, those are not made by any genetic change. So, so why is it that what, why is it that you
can't get a strain of weird looking planaria? And I think this is why I think it's because
they've learned to basically ignore what much of the genome is doing, because, because they have
to, they accumulate so much junk being, you know, not going through an egg phase, they just accumulate
so much junk. So in your model, then, if you're swapping cells around, and the cell knows that,
like you say, it's a, it's a six and it's next to a nine. So there's a level of selection there,
right, already, in the sense that, well, maybe selection is not going to be the right word.
But there's a level there of recognition of a problem just at the cell level.
Exactly. That's the competency. The competency is I'm not a passive Lego block. I actually have
the ability to look to see who my neighbor is. And I have a preference, I have a local preference
about, about how much, what, what kind of a different neighbor am I willing to tolerate.
So if my neighbor is super different from me, then I'm not happy. I want a neighbor that's
pretty close to me. So it's perception plus kind of a goal, or what you want, and an ability to
move. And is the place you move dictated by the discrepancy between six and nine,
or is it a random movement? It's not random, but, but you don't have so, so, so, so it's not
random. You try to go in the direction that you think you should be going, but, but you don't
have a God's eye view where you know where to go and when to stop. You only have a limited ability
to sort of take a couple of steps in the, in the right direction. And that's it. So, and you can,
and you can, you can crank that up either, either either sort of by us, the experiment or you can
let that be evolveable. And then we did that too. And so there's a level of, there's a level of
competency, you know, how much, how much look ahead do you want? How much crawling ability
do you want? And so on. Right. So it's like,
no, it's not selection, but yeah. So, but it's local anyway. It's pure. Yeah. In this case,
it's purely local. Now, one of the things we're going to do next is we're going to implement
this kind of a stress mechanism. So, so I have this other wacky idea that one way to coalesce
individual cells into common purpose is to let them share stress. Because if I'm really unhappy,
if I'm a cell and I'm really unhappy about where I am, and you, my neighbor are perfectly happy
where you are, you're not going to let me buy. And I'm not going to get to move where I need to go
because you're, you're fixed in place. Why should you move? But if I am stressed and I can
let that stress leak out and start to stress you out, then you become a little more plastic too.
Because you are getting the same stress molecule that I have. You don't know that it's not you
being stressed. You know, as far as you're concerned, now you're stressed. So you're a little more
plastic and now I can, now I can get by. So it, by my problem becoming your problem, it sort of
binds everybody to a common purpose. Every, you know, the temperature sort of goes up, right?
And I, you know, and everybody gets a little more plastic. And then when I finally get to
where I'm going, everybody's stress can, can drop because I'll stop stressing everybody out.
So that's, so, so now what, what he's going to do, the, the, the lecturing is they're going to,
put the, put in this mechanism where basically evolution gets to say,
is the stress leaky? And if so, how leaky? And then we'll find out whether you can actually
use this sort of stress mechanism to, you know, and, and, and we're doing that experimentally too,
right? So, so experimentally, if you put a, if you put, if you make the eye of the tadpole on the,
you know, off to the side where it's not supposed to be, it'll eventually sort of move to where it
needs to go and everything rearranges. And, and so we need to now look at, we need, we need to
track the stress markers during this process, you know, is, is their tissue level stress when
nobody, the cells are not dying, they're not poisoned, DNA is not broken, no, no heat and
none of that, but the eyes in the wrong place, right? Is that stressful for, for at the tissue
level? So we're going to, we're going to find out, we have some preliminary data already, but we'll
find out. Yeah, I think this can perhaps be formulated as saying, not only does competency
involve this ability to perceive and act in a certain limited way, but it also involves the kind
of very particular perception action loop that we call communication. So spreading the stress
around is just a special case of communicating something to the neighbors that they can then
confirm, perhaps by using their communicative competencies as well.
I mean, I'm very reminded in looking at this experiment, like, of human evolution.
Evolution, in a sense, working on our cognitive competence, as opposed to, you know, turning
us into creatures that can run faster, bigger weights or fight better, have bigger teeth or
whatever. I mean, evolution didn't do those things. It worked on learning ability and general
cognitive ability instead. So, so that's a nice example. So, you know, I, in my notes, this thing
I say about the R selection and K selection just occurred to me this afternoon. It's not exactly
right, but I think you have the same kind of dichotomy here. And, you know, selecting for a
genome or selecting for a phenome. And like you're saying, Chris, you know, the brain did it one
way. And so he got this rapid evolution. There's this guy at Berkeley, he was kind of pushing that
idea 30 years ago, and he died prematurely. What was his name? I've forgotten. But, you know, the
idea, would you know this story? I'll dig it up. Alan? Oh, well. I'll dig it up. And then
that could then go faster than the genetic evolution. And I guess the humans are doing it one way,
you know, be careful. And then the plenaria are doing it another way. The brain has decided to
do it the plenaria way. By the way, so your competence in your computer experiment, Mike,
you're swapping positions of cells around, but it could just as well be differentiation states of
a cell, right? Saying that, you know, you just do some other differentiation. And then that's
could well be what a tumor is doing now. And so you got the society of cells that's
doing that kind of evolution. And then that now gets you into this whole other issue of
is there a direction to all this?
Yeah. I mean, it seems to me this thing has that it seems to me to be a ratchet. I think it does
have direction, right? Because once you start, it's very hard to go back once you once you start,
once you have a little bit of competency, and you have trouble seeing the judging the genomes. And
so you keep going. It's very hard to. So Steve Frank gave me this amazing example where,
you know, rate arrays in computers, right? For disks, you have these arrays of drives. And
basically, there's a parity system where if you make an if there's an error on one of the drives,
you'd correct because you have copies of the data elsewhere, right? And so it's like this.
So what he was pointing out is that once these rate arrays became popular, the quality of hard
drive media went down because it was because it was no longer that important to have, right?
Because you fix it all in software. So now, but now you're trapped, right? Because if the
quality of your disk is crap, you can't do away with the rate anymore. It's not going to work.
So, so it's kind of a one, you know, it's kind of a one way ticket, but, but clearly some species
sort of flatten out, you know, Plenaria went all the way with this thing. But, but, you know, we
can do some of that. And certainly, and the salamanders can do more. But, but Plenaria just
sort of took it took it all the way. So it does seem like this has a direction to me. To me,
this is a direction and an arrow for intelligence, just just, you know, baked into this whole thing.
So that's nice. So long ago, again, conversations with Kornak or back when I was a grad student,
it occurred to me that most of evolution, particularly if you look at the nervous system,
you could describe it, you know, so people are always asking, is there a direction, you know,
what's higher mean? And it struck me that what it is is separation of functions. You have one part
of the brain in particular that used to do two things badly. And now, if you go from chimps to
humans, you have two parts, they each do one thing better, enzyme to the same way. And so you
could pick a direction. And so then all you have to do is say that, well, one or the other of these
schemes is going to have the net phenotypic result of giving you separation of functions.
And then separation of functions gives you, you can now control them independently. And that
looks like intelligence, or it looks like up. Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, the classic example
for me, this one of several things I should have written and never got around to the
the red nucleus, there's a pars magnicellular and a pars parvocellular, you know, big cells and
little cells. And in monkeys, there's just one nucleus in humans. And then they go to two different
places, you know, the connection goes to different places. In the humans, you have a center, which
is I think the parvocellular and surrounded by the larger cells, the magnicellular. So there's
now an anatomical distinction. And they project to two different places, or they go to the same
