So he says, even though it's obvious that the internet is making people much happier, I'm not sure whether that's actually true.
If people just set a new happiness baseline and ultimately end up experiencing as much pleasure slash feeling as fulfilled
as they did before having access to this new resource,
then our naive desire to strive towards more pleasure is just causing a lot of waste.
He says, for me, the fundamental relevant question is, are people today actually more happy than they were in the previously in history?
Are our brains filled with more happiness chemicals than the brains of our ancestors,
and are we experiencing more happiness, quote unquote, than they were?
Did our brains evolve in such a way that they have a capacity for pleasure that went untapped for hundreds of thousands of years,
which we are now finally tapping?
No, of course not.
No, and I think that's a very good point, but I don't know, I don't know what to do about it.
He says, I kind of been thinking that the human project of making the world better is fundamentally flawed,
and we should all become Stoics or Buddhists or something.
So my immediate thought is, I mean, there's nothing wrong with Stoicism or Buddhism if you're doing it right.
We have the ability to, we've always had the ability to have the same amount of happiness, right?
Generally, happiness is comparative, right?
Hanson says, poor people smile.
And in the important way, there's no putting the cat back in the bag.
Like, you, I imagine Adam, the commentator, probably wouldn't be super happy living like our ancestors did.
Even though, like, to them, finding a body of water that was uncontaminated was like, holy shit, it's like Christmas morning.
But I think the Amish are a good counter example.
They do live like our ancestors, not in all ways.
They cheat in a lot of things, cheat in quotes, I mean, it's their religion.
But they do live much more primitively than we do, but they seem just as happy.
I don't have good ways to measure their happiness, honestly.
Well, me neither.
So I would wonder, and again, I guess maybe comparatively, how happy are they being raised in the dark ages,
under religious indoctrination, as opposed to, like, living in the first world
with all the cool things we have, like electric lights and internet and stuff.
My question is, how happy are you now, and how happy would you be if you had worms?
Right. Well, that worms is a much, much more concrete example, which is, I think, why the focus should be on,
or why a lot of people say the focus should be on decreasing suffering rather than increasing happiness.
I think he kind of has a point, but on the other hand, I think we should have an episode on intellectual complexity.
Because I think the big advantage we have is that our intellectual lives are more complex now
than they used to be, or at least have a greater capacity for it.
And I think there's more value in that.
The whole miserable socrates is still better than a happy pig argument.
Yeah, those are basically my thoughts, too.
We should have an episode about this at some point, and then Katrina can hate us and never talk to us again afterwards.
Wait, an episode about what?
Intellectual complexity.
Okay.
I wonder why you hate us afterwards.
Well, I don't know why I'd hate you.
Didn't you say that you think animals are just as much moral-worth as humans?
Oh, that sounds like a different question.
I did not say that.
Oh, okay.
She said that they have more than you...
More than you give them credit for.
That could be true.
All right, next one.
They're attributed to me in this episode.
User Dragon Ball Herpes made the conspiracy theory comment.
Sorry, Dragon Ball Herpes.
We'll let you next time.
It went on to quote from a Facebook thread, which I thought was really interesting.
So go ahead and...
Yeah, that's from the Facebook.
Somehow, somewhere along the line, accusing governments and the powerful of crimes became associated with mental illness,
disrespectability, and raging idiocy.
And when you pause to notice that it is incredibly creepy,
it's certainly possible to imagine how such a meme could arise naturally, but a little too perfect.
I'm sorry, what me?
When talking about conspiracy theories,
that anyone who promotes conspiracy theory is automatically thought of as a idiot and a crackpot.
It's a little too perfect.
Like the radioactive waste of a propaganda war fought generations back.
See, now that sounds conspiracy theory longer.
But that isn't...
There were propaganda wars fought during the 50s during communism.
But I mean, radioactive waste, I mean, so...
Oh, he's being away.
Oh, I know.
So that's an interesting thing to put forward.
There is an interesting overlap between how...
We'll have to have a longer episode of conspiracy theories at some point.
What if we promise you that Dragon Ball Herpes,
and then we'll leave it there for now, as that sounds.
That sounds good.
I do like bringing up any sort of situation where memes seem to promote their own survival,
even though they aren't intelligent,
and a meme that anyone who accuses the rich and powerful of conspiracies
makes you automatically not someone worth listening to
is very interesting in that regard.
It sure sounds interesting.
Let's put it that way.
I'm getting the skeptical eyebrow.
No, I mean, that sounds like a general bulwark shield
against anyone who would challenge you as being a conspiracy theorist.
You said, isn't it convenient that you believe that conspiracy theorists are crazy?
Yeah, but isn't that convenient?
It's interesting.
I don't think it's a conspiracy theory at all.
I think it naturally arose, partly because they usually are crazy.
But it's not how these things work out.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, so to say that it's too perfect, I guess, is what's leading me.
But it's interesting.
It's worth talking about it more depth.
The next comment was,
I think you may have overreached a bit when you said that it would be immoral
to expose someone to ideas that made them too suicide in the service of good.
Yeah, he has a point there,
because a lot of our cultural effort is put into
lionizing people who do give their lives for the greater good,
for the Spock's or for the Frodo's, although Frodo didn't actually die.
But you know who I'm talking about,
the people who do sacrifice themselves for their societies,
or the person who literally jumps on a grenade.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, those sorts of people are awesome.
And so we have great reasons to promote that.
Also, yeah, people are talking about with self-driving cars.
That's a question that's come up recently.
Should a self-driving car AI protect the driver at all costs?
Or should it, under some circumstances, cause the death of the driver
in order to save five orphan children?
I don't know.
Five hundred orphan children.
Five hundred orphan children, and so the answer is five hundred orphan children, obviously.
As long as it's spelled out clearly in the EUA.
So I want to know what I'm getting into if my car is going to take me somewhere,
if it's going to decide to kill me.
So I will concede that, yes, I was definitely overreaching a bit
when I said that it would be always immoral to expose people to those ideas.
But on the other hand, there's the group of people I am familiar with
often suffer from crippling amounts of self-loathing
because they feel like they are worthless
and they're not doing enough good in the world
and they should be spending a lot of effort on helping other people and none on themselves.
And it leads to terrible amounts of depression.
And it's not helping anybody.
And it's not helping anybody, no.
So that is what I am reacting against.
I don't have a problem with not enough people trying to save society.
I have a problem with people sacrificing themselves for no good reason
and ending up being depressed.
It's not sustainable is what you're talking about
is that if people are sacrificing themselves at the expense of their own well-being
then they can't do more good.
I believe the term is scrupulosity
and I will link to that as well in the show notes
that there are people who have a pathological sort of need to help others
and I've seen it ruin lives.
I'm just picturing eight soldiers pushing and shoving to see who gets to jump on the grenade.
And then of course no one's better off
but that's not exactly how this play out in real life.
Oh yes, and he brought up, which is also a thing that I copy here.
I'm still talking about Adam?
Yes, this is the very last point still with the immorality of exposing people to ideas
to sacrifice themselves.
He says, this is why it's nice to have something like the giving what we can pledge.
And I agree completely, the giving what we can pledge is a pledge
that you will give 10% of your income to a charitable foundation.
Or what you can't.
Or what you can, yes.
It's not based off of Peter Singer's income calculator
where you put in how much you make
and I think it might just be just how much you make, maybe with your expenses
and it looks like you could give 3%.
I believe, or whatever it is to be.
Probably.
The one I'm familiar with is the Scott Alexander post saying,
look, if you're giving 10%, you are a good person.
So give what you can in that regard
and set aside a percentage of your income
that is reasonable to help other people
and don't stress out so much about every single ice cream that you have.
Gotcha.
Okay, not without incident says,
Wikipedia used to have a page listing conspiracy theories
that turned out to be true, which was later removed.
Of course this set off conspiracy theorists.
They should put that back up.
I looked into trying to find some ways to find out
what were conspiracy theories that turned out to be true
and if I could go to my old pal Wikipedia
that had not been great, so thanks for screwing us.
Yeah, he also linked the common thread when they were discussing
about whether they should delete it or not, which he said was really interesting,
so I'll link that as well.
Oh, please.
Finally, this one is aimed at you.
Mr. Oliva.
Oliva? Did I pronounce that right?
I don't know.
Okay, Mr. Oliva says to Katrina,
there are some problems with infinities and morality.
If something is infinitely bad, then doing it twice is exactly as bad as doing it once,
which is as bad as doing it indefinitely.
I knew it.
The same goes for infinitely good things.
This is why it is necessary to define it as some very large value, not infinity.
What did you know?
Oh, yeah.
Mr. Oliva agrees with me and explained it very well.
Thank you.
I was attacking Jason about saying that suffering is infinitely bad
or approaches infinitely bad,
