Welcome to the Basing Preseracy, my name is Katrina Sampson, I'm Inyash Bronski, and I'm
Steven Zuber, and Inyash wanted to introduce our guest and topic for the day.
Today we are here with Steve Parker, also known as Young Idealist on Twitter, and he
is here to speak with us about, um, street epistemology.
Thank you.
I was about to say street evangelism, and I was like, no, that's not right.
No, no, no.
Well, I mean, maybe, maybe it is, maybe it isn't.
I don't think any of us are super familiar with street epistemology, so Steve is kindly
volunteered to bring us up to speed.
Yeah, actually, the first I'd heard of it was when Steve contacted me on Twitter and
said, hey, have you heard of this thing before?
I said, no, I haven't, but let me look into it, and it seemed very interesting.
I said, hey, Steve, you want to talk about this and fill us in?
And Steve, I believe, said yes.
Yes?
Absolutely.
Well, he's here, isn't he?
In fact, street epistemology is something that I've been plotting to try to connect
with the rationalist movement for a while now, mainly because it was born of a, a, a
want to profess and preach rationalization, not rationality, rationality to the masses
in some little way.
Were you a rationalist first or a street epistemologist first?
Definitely rationalist, a fan of Eleizers, as well as a fan of Harry Potter and the methods
of rationality.
How did you get into this?
Before, before I see it was even.
How did you get into this jam?
Street epistemology?
Yeah.
Well, rationality.
Or both.
I'm always curious to hear people's rationale of the origin story.
It's funny.
I started out learning about Harry Potter and the methods by a friend.
He told me that it was a story that, and he just reads a lot of fan fiction online just
randomly or also like independent works of sorts.
And so if there's anything in the sort of nerd grape find that he happens to find and
it's interesting, he tells me about it.
And so yeah, me, him and my other best friend have been fans of HPMorph for a few years
now and I definitely got into it post the making of the podcast.
So I think you guys were about two thirds of the way through when I started listening
and then I ended up catching up to the end of the podcast and I just had to read the
rest of it online because I wasn't willing to leave on the cliffhanger that I was stuck
at.
Right.
I wouldn't have been either.
And it opened me up to learning more and more about Eliezer and the less wrong community.
And so I just started investigating on my own and started to realize like this is what
I've actually been feeling and believing and wanting to represent my foundation like for
the longest time.
It's always hard to say what sets you apart from most people as in terms of your ideals
or what you want to use to define yourself.
And I think rationality is just a great concept in that sense.
It is it's a huge legacy of the entire human race to be able to think rationally and come
up with the awesome things that we come up with from our cultures to our technology and
that all required rational thought on some level at some base level.
So I just I loved learning more and more of how to just dig into that and and be more
of a rationalist myself.
That's fantastic.
I think that's the the motivation behind most of us being here and certainly mine as
well.
And I was introduced to the proper rationality through HPMOR as well.
Yeah, I guess what I'm going to get is a lot of what you're saying I think was a lot
of the the the chorus and the choir that we all like and can ride behind.
So I think that's why a lot of us are here as well.
Did some sort of recruiter show up on what's wrong and try to get you involved in street
epistemology.
How did that happen?
Actually, I connected with a good friend of mine.
I can say his name because he's he's a musician trying to get his name out there.
Buck Bowen.
He and I connected through a local atheist meetup group that he actually was running
at the time and I learned about his music and learned about we got along and traded.
Some feedback on on what the atheist movement for us really meant and what it should look
like.
And then he happened to somewhere along the way get connected with Peter Burgosian before
his book even came out.
Peter Burgosian's book being a manual for creating atheists.
And that's where street epistemology was first described and defined and inspired to the
masses to give this sort of idea a shot that like in the simplest sense, street epistemology
is being able to have civil conversations with just anyone about what they believe and
why.
And it's a sort of methodology on how you can do that and keep it from turning into something
where two people who fundamentally disagree want to tear each other's thoughts out at
the end of it.
Okay.
So when I first heard the word street epistemology, it brought to mind things like street evangelism,
street preachers.
So is it is it ever a situation where you're literally out on the street kind of talking
to passerby?
Passerby?
Effectively, it has been.
The initial premise wasn't suggesting that you necessarily go up and try to like hold
a sign and try to ask everybody who passes by what they believe and why.
It's more of a methodology for how you can start to engage with anyone who you happen
to be talking to and the subject of beliefs comes up.
But there are a few people who have turned it into its own little form of evangelism.
And what it's really evangelizing is just that people should be more aware of exactly
how they themselves can define their own beliefs and exactly what it is that motivates
them or inspires them to hold those beliefs in the first place.
And it, yeah, it really doesn't have to go much further than that in order to help people
think about things that they've never, they never otherwise would have thought.
Does it always go into the atheism territory?
Not always.
Not religious beliefs?
Nope.
It can be applied to religion, politics, conspiracy theories.
Really just anything that you fundamentally disagree with someone on.
When I was looking to street epistemology, the thing that really caught my eye and made
me want to decide to have you on was it seemed that the fundamental question of street epistemology
when I was reading it is the same as the fundamental question of rationality.
There was a lot of focus on saying, you know, ask people what they believe and why they
believe it.
Exactly.
And one of Peter Bogotian's main points that he emphasizes in a manual for creating atheists
is that we need to be of the mindset that if we are wrong and some new information or
some new argument we've never heard of before can prove to us or show us that we are wrong,
we need to be of a mindset that is open and willing to accept that and learn from that
and actually accept the new argument as our own.
Which is exactly something I first came across in the rationalist movie from Eleazar.
And the focus on street epistemology, the other thing that really caught my eye was
that we've talked before I think with when we were interviewing from Skeptoid.
Brian Dunning.
Yes, that there seems, there's often a idea that atheism has a bit of a dick problem in
that people are often called dicks for the way they confront people and street epistemology
seemed to be very much a reaction to that, be how to be nice to people and get them on
your side.
Is that correct?
Is that a focus you've noticed?
Yeah, it really is.
In a street epistemology conversation you would actually emphasize learning about the other
person and letting them have their own little soapbox to speak from and you utilize Socratic
Method to get them to parse out and open up to further questions that they might not have
otherwise considered for themselves and you need to avoid even bringing in your counter
arguments or your counter evidence to the table.
Instead, you would want something like, so, you know, what I've heard from, like, say
if the issue is, or the topic is someone believes in Jesus Christ as Son of God, whatnot, and
that you ask them their reason and their reason happens to be say, because I have faith.
Well, the street epistemology response would be, that's interesting.
So I've spoken to Muslims who have said that they believe that Muhammad is a prophet from
God because they have faith.
And a lot of what I'm hearing from the Muslim and from a Christian like yourself is that
faith is the reason why they believe.
Is that the same thing?
Like, is faith of what they mean the same thing as what you mean?
And is that enough to justify why they believe in their religion as opposed to yours?
So it's kind of like that.
You just find a nice way to, oh yeah.
What reaction do you get when you ask that sort of a thing?
Well, first to point out, what I feel like when I'm doing street epistemology is I feel
like on some level I'm patronizing the other person, because to me, my questions seem like
they're obvious, but what I get is this surprising reaction from most that I use street epistemology
with, that they seem to appreciate that you're interested and that they have a chance to
talk about, or to even think more deeply about the things that they really didn't think of
before.
It's a very sheer difference.
What's that?
Who are the people that you're speaking with?
How does this play out in your life?
Well some of us have gathered on the website blab.io and on blab you can have these random
discussions with just about anybody who's interested.
It's a video chat for four people and then everybody else gets to be on the side chat.
And some of us have used blab to practice our street epistemology.
There's also, in my personal life, I've practiced epistemology on my family with my girlfriend,
with my mother, and these are family members and people close to me who believe in things
like Christianity that I don't believe in myself.
And the result just tends to be that they feel a little closer after the fact.
It feels like we actually work something out and understand more about each other by
the end of it.
I feel like I went through a similar period of my life right around high school, maybe
earlier, is when I sort of lost my religion and was talking with people about it.
And that's when you get into all the exciting circle of reading atheist books and all the
fun arguments with religious people.
And I had fun just tearing down my parents' arguments and stuff and being a dick.
And then that sort of wore off.
And like you said, or like you've experienced, I found that conversations after my goal was
to be more amicable was much more rewarding for, I think, both parties involved.
Yeah, there's never really a good time to be an asshole.
I mean, I take that back.
It's not hard to generate examples.
But when you're trying to change someone's mind, probably not, right?
So that reminds me.
Do you ever see Phil Plate gave a talk a few years ago, which I'm sure is widely circulated
on YouTube called Don't Be a Dick.
I think it fits pretty well with what you're describing.
I don't know if I saw his before, but I've definitely heard a few talks about how to
not be a dick.
Oh yeah, good deal.
Yeah, I think his was kind of just not even necessarily how it was just don't be.
And it was sort of with the assumption that everyone knew what being a dick was.
It was a very short talk.
It was literally just those words.
It's done.
It can be.
It can be so hard when you first the D convert, though, because our eye anyway, I still had
all this pent up passion and I mean, it's also sort of this anger at my entire life
having been a lie, you know, and everything that I thought was true turns out to be complete
crap.
And you just want to go to other people and you're like, look at this, can you not see
