Say again?
It's like a user friendly version of, is that your true objection?
Yeah.
Neat.
Pretty much.
That strikes me as hugely socratic, kind of just beating them, not beating them down,
but that's how the stockings made it look.
Wearing them down or maybe getting to the bottom of it just through clarifying questions.
Breaking things down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the more clarification you ask for, the more that you can reveal to them that
they're not really coming from where they think they're coming from.
I think the most important aspect of both the socratic method and, you know, street
epistemology, which it seems to be based on is getting people to stop thinking of arguments
as fights where you're on two separate sides and one of you is going to win and start
getting people just to think of their own beliefs and try to examine them and not viewing
it as the enemy.
Right.
Exactly.
That's something that I heard Steve and Socrates both express was a willingness to like, I
really, you know, if you're right, I want to change to believe what you believe, but
I'm just not convinced yet.
Can you try and convince me?
I have a couple of questions.
First of all, Aniyush, could you explain what is that your true objection is?
Oh, it's basically, it's basically exactly what he said.
It's a essay by Ali Eiser or he, he said the same kind of thing that people often give
an objection.
And when you refute that or overturn it, they say, Oh, well, that I have this other objection
and my, my original estimate has not changed at all.
And his point was, well, then that obviously was not your actual rejection.
You were just throwing, throwing up a, you know, blade of armor, whatever you want to
call it, other bulwarks to stymie me.
Can you please get to what your actual true objection is so we can make progress?
I see.
And then my other questions for Steve, through your practice, have you ever been able to
update your own beliefs?
Yes.
At least I remember the feeling of updating my own beliefs.
When was that?
Well, the simplest example that comes to mind is with my own mother.
Like I believed before that she really didn't give her beliefs any thought whatsoever and
that it was just the title that she put over her head of Christian and she liked going to
church each week.
And I don't even know if she's even listening to the sermons, let alone has any thoughts
about them.
Because my whole life, whenever we've gone to church, I wanted a conversation afterward
about what the sermon was about.
And she, whether I was a believer or not, wanted nothing to do with it.
So we just never engaged or felt like we could be on the same level when it comes to talking
about religion.
But then in the course of actually talking to her about her beliefs, I learned that she
actually gives them a lot more thought than I gave her credit for.
And so there was, I guess, more or less, I felt generally more cynical, I would say,
about other people and what they're capable of until I was able to engage them with street
epistemology.
And now I actually have the confidence to go into a conversation with, say, not too long
ago, earlier this week, I conversed with a individual who's a white supremacist.
And he's just a young guy who has these beliefs, which he, I guess, was raised with.
It's hard to say how he came about them per se.
But I was able to comfortably engage him, knowing that that would be a very uncomfortable
conversation to have and learn more about him as a person, as opposed to how the ignorance
of his belief would otherwise define him to me.
Have you ever run into someone who was absolutely not interested in having a dialogue who just
wanted to attack and make you look bad?
What are you doing in those situations?
Typically, I troll right back in them in some way or another, but that's just me being my
bratty self.
In no way is that SE.
But yeah, sometimes you really, as far as street epistemology is concerned, you have
to figure out which individuals are worth talking to further.
The simplest being, like in the case of the person who believes that if they change their
belief, their life would get worse or that there was a problem with that.
Really, anybody that you come to and ask the question, if you are wrong, would you want
to know?
If they say no, whatever their explanation, rationality and you trying to argue rationality
to them has left the room.
You now need to have, if anything, if anything other than thank you for your time, have a
nice day, you want to dig a little more into why they feel that way about this thing.
If it was true, it would be such a monster to them to find that out.
You don't really care to tell them that it's actually true anymore.
You care to find out why is it so scary?
That's an important step to take.
Once they've admitted that they're not playing the game, they're like, all right, cool, then
we're not playing that game, but I still want to talk to you just because of the bottom of
this.
I feel like that's an interesting step and it makes it easier to, like you described talking
with that white supremacist and how your mom turned out to be much more thoughtful on
the issue of her religion than you previously anticipated.
It brings home the point that most everybody, and I didn't want to be untradable to religious
people earlier when I said that I could probably guess what their arguments were.
It was just that I've swam in the arguments a lot and I'm just surprised that some wholly
new argument came forth that I had no familiarity with.
But the idea that your opponents for use of that word in this context aren't just these
soulless monsters.
You talk to this white supremacist who most people would be unwilling to engage with.
Being able to actually sit there and reflect that yes, in a real way, a suicide bomber,
a mass shooter, they're people too, that the reason that they did these things aren't just
because they're monsters.
No one's just a monster.
I mean, most everybody's not just a monster.
There are violent psychopaths who just want any monsters.
Yeah, and I'd say most people can be convinced to be monsters if given the right set of premises.
The trouble is we have these natural defenses to be violent when it seems like violence might
salvage the perpetuation of our species or genes to be violent.
I'm kind of curious.
What was the reason?
Did you ever find out the reason that you're willing to do that?
Well, it was part that she just wasn't interested in getting that deep into it.
But she did finally have a deep conversation when I was simply asking her questions.
I guess it's just when I was telling her whether as a kid or an adult, you know what I thought
about this when the preacher said this and this and that.
And she's just like, I gotta think about how to cook dinner.
I guess she wasn't interested in that respect.
And a lot of times she just doesn't put those kinds of thought processes on the top of her priority list.
Do you think that changed possibly also when you became an adult and, in her opinion,
suddenly were more engaging?
I would say no because street epistemology was really the first time I was able to really engage with her on such a deep topic.
Every other opportunity, it's really like I always felt frustrated because for me,
it seems obvious to think that if my mom is wrong and she's demanding something of me as the adult or, you know,
person whose house I'm living in, if she's demanding something of me and she's wrong,
she's clearly taking a stance of I don't care if I'm wrong, you're gonna do it or this is the way it is.
And she in no way seems that irrational in any other context until there's a dispute, right?
So whether it's disagreeing over religious beliefs or specifics,
I think oftentimes she just tries to avoid any possible conflict or talk about things that we might conflict on
because she doesn't feel like she can be ready to defend it all the time.
And she doesn't care that I can be able to debunk her.
She knows that she doesn't take enough time to think too hard about these things.
So she's not ready to let that be the game that we're playing.
I kind of feel like Steve's mom sort of almost has a good point because if you know that you don't have the time
and the intellect and the energy to really delve into something, but you have this person you trust,
the priest who's already done all the work, it's kind of rational to default to them.
And if some, you know, some kid comes around and tries to tell you that everything he said is wrong,
you're like, well, I don't have time for this right now.
I'm sure you could beat me because I haven't spent a lot of time on this and you obviously have,
but my priest has spent even more time than you, so I'm going to go with him.
Yeah, in a sense that that is kind of delegating.
But I guess a more clear picture on something that historically between my mom and myself really meant something important to me
in terms of where we've disagreed.
Back when I was, before I was even 18, she and my stepdad put in a lot of conversation
and that was basically a warning to me that when you're 18, you're out the door,
so you better know what the hell you're doing.
All very implied and taken quite to heart as soon as they were said.
And from the time I was a sophomore, knowing that this was going to be the case,
I tried to have a conversation with them about, okay, well, maybe I can take over my own life now
and do something like drop out of school, get my GED and go straight to the community college nearby.
And then my life will be in my hands and I'll be in college even before I'm 18,
so you won't have to worry about me and I'll be off out of your hands, right?
So she said, no, you need to build your social skills in school and be with people your own age.
And I was just like, okay, well, that sucks.
And then slowly the time, the time kept ticking as she kept making it clear when you're 18, you're on your own.
And it wasn't like she'd come to me every day saying that or threatening it.
It's just whenever there was a fight, whenever there was some reason to think about it, yeah, I'd get the threat.
Well, so way back then, I would have really loved some ability to have a conversation with her
and be able to potentially convince her that maybe kicking me out or threatening to kick me out isn't a good idea.
And now it's been 16 years later after I graduated high school
and I have two siblings who are now in junior high and just entering high school.
And my mom and I had a conversation where she brought up, you know, it just doesn't seem like in this day and age
a parent can actually just throw their kid out to fend for themselves when they graduate high school and are on their own.
And I'm like, I am so glad you feel that way now.
I feel you. I was the oldest kid as well.
And there's so much ground you break being the eldest kid that your siblings have it so easier afterwards.
You don't even know what I went through so that you can have this freedom now.
Would you like to see these communication skills taught in schools or somehow available to people early on in life?
I absolutely would love a good number of things taught earlier in life.
I would recommend, if I had anything to say with the education system, to start teaching people or kids the basics of philosophy
and human psychology at about the age of nine, mainly because that's the age where they can actually start to comprehend these things
and also the age right before they need to comprehend these things because they're going to be a big focal point in their lives,
whether it's them talking to people about religions and various beliefs or it's them going through hormones
that are going to make them feel things which they can't understand or explain in which they will quickly find some kind of rationalization as to why
and not realizing that, hey, you could be going through mania or you could be going through depression.
This is something to be aware of.
I completely agree. I feel like kids can understand more than we give them credit for
and that there's every benefit to exposing them to the ideas, like you said,
the human psychology, philosophy, general thinking skills as a core class from sixth grade on.
Maybe earlier.
Third grade.
I don't know.
Nine year olds are also nine years old, but yeah, third grade?
You always subscribe to Six.
Oh, that works.
When I was nine, my Christian school that I went to was actually trying to teach me philosophy.
They just happened to teach it in a way of saying some atheists try to argue that because of what philosophers say,
that means that Jesus isn't really the Son of God.
And I'm like, okay, that sounds like a bad argument, but go ahead.
So one example of what philosophers say is René Descartes saying, I think therefore I am.
And I didn't have to hear anymore to understand that at that age.
I was just enthralled, like, oh my gosh, I was just thinking about this in Santa Claus and wondering if I was real.
Thank you so much.
Santa Claus bringing on an existential crisis.
Okay, so what does the atheist say about how does that have anything to do with Jesus?
And then he'd go, but the atheists are wrong because René Descartes himself was a Christian.
So there.
That is a stupid argument, but oh my gosh, I'm real.
I'm actually really real.
Jesus, that was a good takeaway.
I like how a lot of early philosophers, when they were trying to make arguments against something that they thought was bull crap,
would first say, this is why this is wrong, and then give a really weak case for why it was wrong.
They're technically towing the party line while sneaking in all the reasons that it's wrong.
