it?
Soil and green is made of people, you know, the same kind of thing.
I guess the kids go through the same thing with Santa Claus.
I got in trouble for telling my friends that Santa Claus wasn't real.
Do you remember how you felt when you found that out?
I was I was pretty proud of myself for figuring it out.
And then I didn't hold it against my parents, but I didn't want anybody else to live in
the shadows.
Yeah.
Such a lie.
So, of course, I went and told my friends and I got slammed.
People did not want to hear there was no Santa, I didn't experience something similar.
And then you can piss off your friends, parents even more, I was saying, you know, all this
stuff I just heard about Santa.
Yeah, Jesus now.
I mean, I had that experience about Jesus, I never did about Santa Claus, because you
know, it's your hope is witnesses.
Ah, yes, of course.
Right, right from the start, they're like, yeah, Santa Claus made a pagan thing.
Don't don't believe in because that's Satan trying to get into your head.
Yeah.
I was actually on the other side of it, arguing to defend Santa Claus and wanting a debate
at that age.
Nice.
So my mom finally admitted to me that Santa Claus wasn't real.
Your mom was like, you're too good at this.
All the other kids are starting to believe again.
Maybe I don't know.
I don't think they wanted anything to do with me because I was so argumentative.
I'm trying to think of just other things that the street of epistemology mindset brings
to mind.
And Dan Dennett is famous for putting or talking quite a bit about, um, let's see, it's called
rapper pours rules named after the game theorist and at all rapper poor.
It's really short.
There's there's four principal things.
And one, you should attempt to re express your target's position so clearly, vividly
and fairly that your target says, thanks, I wish I thought of putting it that way.
Two, you should list any points of agreement, especially if it matters of general or widespread
agreement.
Three, you should mention anything you've learned from your target.
Four, only then are you permitted to say so much as a word of rebuttal or criticism.
And I think one is where most people get tripped up.
They're in a good order here.
Uh, for the most part, especially in an argument, you're not really interested.
Well, we are.
Many people aren't interested in fully understanding where their opponent is coming from.
Um, now granted, if you're having a conversation with, you know, an evangelist Christian or
something, it's going to be this.
You basically know exactly where they're coming from already.
But, uh, if it's just somebody talking about it really depends on the Christian, so many
different flavors, but, but it's not like I'm going to come across this one church that
is going to suddenly convince me that God's like, I think their core premises are about
the same.
Um, Stephen, I think that a lot of churches have different approaches to what God is and
how metaphorical it is true, true.
And I do want to point out some things that I have learned from doing street epistemology
is, um, there is a space for me to actually respect somebody who I otherwise did not have
any respect for.
Like I know that I used to be a Christian and I was fairly strong in that belief once
upon a time, but then when I engage Christians now, and I try to have that conversation,
I've got a long history as well of just feeling like, my God, you just must be too stupid
to understand the thing that I'm trying to tell you or trying to talk to you about.
But with street epistemology, there's this one example of an individual I met on Blab,
and I think I have to forthright say that I think she is, uh, she has a low IQ score
and she says things which contributes to many ills of society that I really dislike.
But when I got to hear her express how confident she really felt, how, well, why, what she
believed exactly and why she believed it, and was willing in the comfort of that space
having this street epistemology talk to actually challenge her own thinking and go through
these exercises with us, I have nothing but utter respect for this individual.
Like, even though I don't think she's smart, even though I think she does these things
which I find are still bad, she has earned my respect through street epistemology.
I think there's a level of respect that has to be granted to anyone who's willing to engage
in dialogue, right?
It's not like the person who will shout over you and call you an idiot or a heathen or
a, what do you call them, a blasphemer or a heathenist or whatever who's going to hell
or something.
It's the people who get irate, who lose their cool that it's hard to really respect after
a dialogue, right?
I think, yeah, Steve, I think it's great that you're opening yourself up to really learning
things about why people think things they do and why people believe the things they
do.
And I imagine that people come up with excellent points sometimes and that you do interact
with intelligent people who disagree with you, right?
Correct.
I'm sure there's a huge prompt there.
In fact, I always keep it in mind something aside from street epistemology and the rationalist
movement.
I think of when somebody makes a good point, I try to keep in mind positive reinforcement.
Like, ultimately, I want to help train them to be more rational people.
So if they make a rational point, I need to give them a part of what they're really hoping
for, which is credit, you know, just say, you know what, that's a really great point.
That is a really, really good point.
I want you to know that's a good point because this, this and this, you know, you have to
show them that you respect them especially when they are making a sound argument.
So a question that we've asked ourselves several times on this podcast, what is the benefit
of doing this?
I would say the big picture benefit that everyone should have in mind if they decide to engage
in street epistemology is that right now we have a sort of world culture that does not
appreciate having difficult conversations.
A lot of people avoid these conversations because they're uncomfortable and that becomes
more and more of a problem because we isolate and we still end up going to war over things
that we disagree on.
Yet we don't have enough of this civil engagement where we can actually say, okay, wait, let
me understand exactly what you think and why you think it and then we can move on from
there.
We don't have these conversations most of the time because people end up so locked in
their camps unwilling to just have the conversation.
No, even accept that you're going to disagree, but at least know what it is you're actually
disagreeing about and why you disagree about it.
I think that's, that's key and if you can get to the point where you can read, where
you can at least restate what your interlocutor is saying that they believe that you've already
come way further than most people when having an argument, right?
Absolutely.
Even if you can't do it so well that they, you know, you're following the first rule
of repertoire, but at the very least being able to say, oh, okay, so you believe this,
am I right?
Not where you come to somebody and be like, oh, you're a Christian.
You believe this, this, and this, or oh, you're, I hate to keep picking on religion because
I feel like it's, it's, it's an easy target, but you know, oh, you're a, you know, from
the other side, you know, oh, you're a skeptic.
Oh, so you're just one of those, you know, debunking, uh, no fun dicks, right?
So, um, if, if you can meet in a place where you at least understand what the other person
is trying to get at, I feel like that's really important.
Yeah.
How, how is street epistemology different than skepticism and sort of seeing a lot of overlay
and I think you already kind of covered that in the same way that rationality overlays
with skepticism.
I would say street epistemology is a tool.
It's a more fundamentally a tool which can be used for expressing or teaching people
about skepticism in a Socratic sort of way, as well as rationality.
But I also want to emphasize that as a tool, anyone who in their own mind finds their belief
to be rational should find street epistemology, street epistemology to be a great tool for
helping to change minds with a rational premise.
So you have to be willing to use Socratic method in this sort of way to convince people
to question what they believe.
And at the end of the day, I think if we are being, if we're talking about people who value
rationality in their beliefs, I think we can come across a good number of people besides
atheists who would find street epistemology to be useful because epistemology is about
understanding how we know the things that we know.
And so at the very least, if someone feels like their belief is valid, then they should
feel no, they should feel no discomfort in learning about other people's beliefs and
why they believe them and asking the sort of questions that would be the kind of questions
that would convince them if there was a better answer for them.
Oh yeah.
I mean, like pick a topic, right?
I mean, anti-vaccination, global warming, there's people on both sides that are very
strongly opinionated.
And there are people on both sides that are, or there are people on both of those issues
that are wrong.
But being able to talk coolly about whatever your disagreement is, again, I think I just
think that's usually key.
But as far as the difference between, like I said, I guess one of the middle skepticism
and street epistemology, if I'm hearing you right, I guess you can be a street, you can
be a skeptic by yourself in your basement, but you can't be a street epistemologist by
yourself in your basement.
You've got to be out there talking to people.
Right.
Unless you're on a, you know, video chat or something.
That's not really by yourself.
Yeah.
Actually, can you pick a topic?
Is there something you can epistemologize one of us about that we disagree with you
on?
I bet.
Okay.
Well, I think if I really value my skill set in street epistemology, I might be able
to even street epistemologize any of you on something that you believe, which I actually
agree with.
I think I might have something that we disagree with.
Okay.
I recently spoke to somebody who was talking about why she was uncomfortable to discuss
a belief that she has, and it seemed to be a reasonable explanation, and I was totally
cool with her doing that.
She had a, she wanted to keep a belief, and she was afraid that by looking into it further,
she would potentially change her mind, or it was likely that she would change her mind.
She didn't want to go through that process and potentially alienate her friends who
held that belief.
It was more important for her to get along with her friends than it was for her to change
her belief or to look into it further.
So the position is?
You were talking about how people should be comfortable discussing, right?
Oh, sure.
Yeah, some people aren't even ready to take step one, right?
Yeah.
If you're not ready to look into the, to flinch into the darkness, one more look as the level
goes, or if you're not ready to even question your belief, then you're probably not ready
to talk to anybody.
My position is it's okay.
To not talk about things?
It's okay to not question your beliefs if that's, if that's what you really don't,
if you don't want to.
All right.
See you.
Okay.
All right.
So, um, trouble with that is that I actually would agree with you, so would Peter Bogotian.
I can challenge that.
The thing about that conversation, if I were to have that conversation with this individual
using street epistemology, I want to establish some of the basics with the individual.
Like, if you were wrong, would you want to know that you're wrong?
