If your belief is incorrect and I'm not saying that it is, would that be something you would
want to know that that's oftentimes a good way to lead the conversation, just to, just
to check that sort of thing and make sure you're not stepping on any toes of somebody
who might be better off keeping their belief.
And so with a response like that saying, I don't want to lose my friends, I might ask
if you possibly had other friends that you know you wouldn't lose and felt that expanded
support system, would that be something you'd be interested in?
Like, do you feel like maybe you might want to have more friends so that your, your group
that you can talk to about your thoughts, um, doesn't always feel like it would go away
just because they disagree with you?
Hey Gio, your friends aren't diversified enough.
Well, I, can I jump in here?
Yeah, go ahead.
I think it would depend on specifically what it is that she believes.
You know, if it was something harmless, like, I mean, it's, it's all, I'm thinking of a
harmless belief is actually kind of hard and that's sort of what I'm considering.
Santa Claus.
Santa Claus.
I mean, so that, that one's pretty nonchalant, but it's, I feel like it's, so she believes
in Santa Claus at like 30.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um, you know, that, I don't know.
I guess you would ask her how she thinks.
I mean, that one seems too out there, but I guess I'm trying to think of, I'm going
to the, like the examples that I gendered earlier, you know, like if it's global warming
or anti-vaccine or something.
In her case, it's a gender politics type question.
Oh, okay.
Right.
So.
Oh yeah.
Then if it's just a politics question and it's just about like, do I want to start
expressing a different belief and have all my friends hate me?
And when it's, when it's such a, a non-issue and she would rather have a belief that allows
her to be very supportive of her friends.
Gosh.
With, but she's afraid that if she looks into it further, she might develop, she might
have some conversations and further develop beliefs that would cause her to alienate her
friends.
Then.
That does sound like a harder question.
Yeah.
It's a hard question.
Because it's a, it's a politics and policy question.
It's not like a fact question.
So like if she was wrong, a fact question, you know, about say the origin of autism and
it's connection to vaccines or something super easy like that, then I would be comfortable
challenging her and saying, look, it's not okay for you to have this wrong belief.
Even if it's going to alienate your friends, your belief isn't private.
If you're ever planning on having kids or if you're talking to people about vaccinating
their kids.
I would first ask if they ever plan on having kids because if they don't, they'd be like,
whatever.
Believe it or not.
You want nieces and nephews.
I mean, you know, friends who, who might procreate and then, you know, she'd be talking to the
friends, trying to talk them out of vaccinating, maybe they weren't informed.
I mean, so like it's, it's hard.
There was a great essay by William something Clifford called the ethics of belief and he
lays out this analogy or it's a parable, I guess where this boat captain, you know, ports
and he's getting ready to make a shipment for another or load the load the boat for another
shipment.
And he's thinking, man, I'm wondering if the boat is actually seaworthy.
You know, it's been kind of rickety lately.
And then he's like, no, you know what, I'm not going to look into it.
I don't want to, I don't want to have to deal with it.
If it is a problem, so never mind, boat goes out sinks.
So the, everyone's intuition, which I think is correct is that it's all his fault.
The thought occurred, the thought occurred to him to look into it and he suppressed
the belief because he didn't want to go through the effort of what it would mean to admit
that he might be wrong.
That is in the belief that his ship was seaworthy.
But if you hit someone with that story on the street, they're going to be like, you're,
you're comparing me to a murderous boat captain.
I'm not talking to you anymore.
Clifford Clifford then flips it and ends the story saying the boat went fine.
No big deal.
Is the ship captain any less culpable?
No, because he had no idea whether the boat was seaworthy.
Right.
He just, he wanted to believe it was so he didn't look into it.
So the fact that things worked okay.
And yes, I would, I would equate an anti-vaxxer to the boat captain saying, look, you're afraid
to look into this because your belief that, you know, whatever your belief about the connection
of vaccine stautism is important to you for some reason.
And that is enough for you to, to go about and evangelize this, this bad epistemology.
Yeah.
But if you're, if the anti-vaxxer you're talking to isn't just someone you ran across
at a bus stop, if it's like a co-worker or a cousin or someone you have to interact
with daily, not daily, but frequently, you don't want to just accuse them.
And then they are, they're going to, they're going to be even less likely to listen to
what you have to say after this because they will identify you as the hostile enemy side
that must be defended against.
Steve, let's say that I'm against vaccines because I think that they, they cause autism
in children.
How would you talk to me?
Okay.
Let me see if I understand this.
You believe that when a doctor gives a child a vaccine that it always causes, it always
causes harm to the child or has a high potential.
And that there's a, there's a higher chance of them, a significantly higher chance of
them developing autism, which is, which will make their lives more difficult potentially.
Interesting.
And would you have a number that you could set to like how, like what, what you think
the probability of that the likelihood of them, them being harmed would be?
Do you think it's like most children?
My ears.
So this is not fair to anti-vaxxers, but let's say, yes, I read a study in which the
normal, the normal level of autism is 10%, but among kids who have vaccines, it's 15%.
And that concerns me because I know that autism can really impact a person's life.
Oh, okay.
So potentially.
So you've read an article and that article said that 10 to 15% you said of children can
be harmed by vaccines.
Well, rather that there's a 5%, a significant increase of 5% in kids who have vaccines versus
not.
And since that's a scientific article, I'm very concerned about that.
And now I feel like people are trying to cover it up because big pharma.
Okay.
So if there wasn't that particular argument, is the, is the article the main reason why
you believe?
Like if that article wasn't there, would you still believe that vaccines cause harm to
children?
No, I don't think I would.
Okay.
Well, and that's, that's pretty interesting.
So then hypothetically, if I had another study that to show you, and I don't, I'm not saying
that I do, but if I had one, which suggested the opposite, would that change how strongly
you feel about vaccines?
Well, that change your opinion about vaccines at all.
I'm aware that there are articles, that there's scientific articles that suggest the opposite.
But if there's, I don't know which way to go with this.
Either I think that there's some sort of conspiracy and people are being paid off, or I think
that even, even one article that strongly suggests a connection is enough.
And, and those other ones that, and that that's, that any, let's go with that one.
Any risk is too much.
Any risk is too much risk for, for children, our children's health.
Right.
So, so yeah, you're going to have individuals who will say that, right?
And you'll also have individuals who probably they'll change the subject from being about
the article to being about, let's say, an anecdotal, you know, story.
This, this friend really close to me.
I know they had a vaccine and, you know, everything went wrong with their child.
Thank you for helping with that.
I was just going to say, Katrina convinced me that she was, she was passing ideological
mentoring tests for an anti-vaxxer pretty well up until she started saying, I think
it was more the first that you'd get in most of the anti-vaxxer crowd unless of the second
any risk is too much, be more like a conspiracy thing.
Not like the Bayesian reasoning of like, well, you know, I still have to update a little
bit in favor of this one article, but I liked that that was fun.
No, it's the first, it's the anchor bias that we were talking about in which the first
piece of information that I got, I'm adjusting away from it with additional articles, but
not enough.
Right.
Yeah.
Sorry.
And so, so what I usually find is that when you, you ask a little more about if the
article itself, if you've asked them like, what's your strongest evidence?
And they say it's an article.
And then when you ask them, so if the article wasn't there, would it change your mind at
all?
Then rather than answer that question, they would go, Oh, but there was also this story
that I heard personally.
And there was, there's more articles and here, here's a whole library.
You can research, go, go fetch.
You can go find all that information, just read the whole library and everything in it.
And while you're at it, read the whole internet and then you'll know.
And I, I, the, the, the technique with street epistemology is to go like, well, okay, I
understand.
And there are these other things, but can we just stick with what your strongest evidence
is or your, your, your personal reason happens to be for why you believe?
Cause I'd like to know, like, if you're right, then I want to know, I want to know if, if
you're right, then I want to also know for the right reasons that you're right, that
your, your belief is correct.
So if we could go back, you know, is the article really the strongest piece of evidence you
have?
Because ultimately if they don't, if, if, you know, and sometimes what you can do is,
well, what you should often try to do is get sort of a measure.
So I could ask on a scale of zero to 100% confidence, 100% confidence being you believe
vaccines are absolutely causing harm to children.
And this, this claim is true.
And 0% being you absolutely don't believe that vaccines cause any harm whatsoever to
children.
Where would you be on your confidence level?
Right.
So most of the time I'd say ballpark figure, maybe about 55 to 60% of the time you get
the response 100% interest are absolutely no budging.
And oftentimes they say it without even realizing what that means in a real sense.
So then later you can come to, to, to ask them, okay, so if this article wasn't true,
or if, if I had an article which had similar, a similar kind of evidence and amount of evidence
that was sufficient to argue against that vaccines causing harm to children.
Would that change your, your belief in any way?
And if they say no, then you have to point this out to them that we'll see the problem
here is, is it, is it fair to really say that this is why you believe if when it comes to
articles written about studies being done on vaccines and the vaccines and the
relationship to autism, isn't what would actually sway you?
What would really be the reason why you believe?
Like, is there something that was more strongly, like,
Yeah, it's like a user friendly version of, is that your real objection?
