You're a little taller, you want to sit over here?
No, I'm good.
Okay.
Cause I'm already set up.
Plus I'm supposed to be farther away so I don't get people sick.
Sick.
Yeah.
We're all going to come out if you're six.
That, hmm.
Now that would be a downgrade.
Wouldn't be the worst thing in the world.
I mean, I wouldn't die as soon.
That's true.
But I'd still have to go through the whole teenage years again.
A school would be a breeze this time.
God, school might be really boring on the other hand.
I could just ignore everything and work on my own projects.
That's right.
And you can be the, you can run the school with your advanced brain.
I'm not sure that's how schools work.
No, but you could probably run the bullies somehow.
I don't know.
I don't know if you could argue with kids or not if you're smart or it doesn't work with
adults.
But you might freak them the fuck out if you're talking at them like a 30 year old with a
six year old body.
You might be able to like corral the nerd group.
That's true.
Yeah.
I don't think you're about to talk any nerds into not beating you up.
So let's introduce ourselves.
Hey, welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy.
This is Katrina Stanton.
This is Steven Zuber.
And this is Zinniash Brodsky.
And today we are talking about the sanity waterline.
Specifically, should we raise it?
Can we raise it?
And before we start any of that, I should probably introduce what the sanity waterline
concept is.
Please do.
Okay.
The sanity waterline is coined by Ali Eiser, of course, is the idea that there is fundamental
problems in society itself that has let us get to this point in how we think.
The example he brings up, which I think might be slightly contentious, but not a bad example,
is that of religion, that even if you were to get rid of all religion and, you know,
to be less contentious, let's just go with creationism.
We can all agree that young earth creationism is really past the pale, and there's no reason
for anyone to believe that that's sane.
The young earth creationism being the belief that the earth was created 6,000 years ago.
Are you sure you're not marginalizing the less wrong young earth creationist overlap there?
You know what?
They can stop listening if they want, or they can continue either way.
So we'll take creationism, even if you were to wipe out entirely the concept of creationism,
which in America has an approval, a belief rating of something like 40 to 50 percent?
Yeah.
Young earth?
Yes.
Young earth creationists.
40 to 50 percent of people subscribe to it.
So yeah, totally.
The earth was created 6,000 years ago.
Even if you were to wipe out that belief completely, and everyone were to just have that erase
from their heads, and no one would think of it again, there is this problem in society
that that belief could arise in the first place, and it would be no more than a few months
before something equally crazy swept through the country, because there's a fundamental
problem in how people think if thoughts like that are that easily and that widely accepted.
So what's the origin of this problem?
I was just reading something that talked about our ancient brains.
Our ancient brains that evolved over hundreds of thousands of years, obviously longer than
that actually, and it evolved over 6,000 years.
Yes.
Are ill-equipped to handle our space age world.
They're very well-equipped to handle running around the savannah.
Yeah, if that's what you want to do.
Right, and making babies.
And they're only kind of okay with that.
I mean, I guess they're optimized for false positives, because you survive longer.
Okay.
Well, I wanted to bring in this quote at the top of that essay, because I liked that a
lot.
That great fine menesque strategy of sounding complicated, but then you dissect it and it
doesn't.
Uh-huh.
So, the post that we're kind of deriving this episode from is, unless wrong, called
Raising the Sanity Waterline.
It begins to paraphrase the Black Belt Bayesian, behind every exciting dramatic failure, there
is a more important story about a larger and less dramatic failure that made that first
failure possible.
Beautiful.
Beautiful sentiment right there.
I think it's, so, I read that the first time, and I'm like, what is okay?
What do you, what do you mean?
And then he goes on to say, if every trace of, and well, we'll amend it to work with
our own example.
If every trace of religion, but we're sub-increationism for our example here, was magically eliminated
from the world tomorrow, then, however much improved the lives of many people would be,
we would not even have come close to solving the larger failures of sanity that made religion
possible in the first place.
So, there's a larger and less dramatic example that made that first problem possible in the
first place.
And, in this case, sanity is, or the, the lack of sanity is the difference between what
reality and what our brains perceive, or?
Not, I don't think it's just what our brains perceive, because there's very little supernatural
to be perceived.
It's the lack of ability to think through things and correlate thoughts in your head.
I think the reason this is brought up as a lack of sanity in society in general, as opposed
to individual people, is because it is so widely accepted.
I'm reminded of the, I believe it was Neil deGrasse Tyson quote, where he was talking
about the correlates between education and religion, and the more educated you are, the
less religious you are as a populist.
I believe he said some with the high school dropout rate, it's around 70% belief.
Once you get a high school degree, it drops to 60.
Once you get a college degree, it drops like 40.
A graduate degree is down to 30.
He keeps going through the list.
He says the very top of educational attainment is the scientists who work in the elite academy.
I believe it was the National Academy of Sciences.
Yeah.
And he said, and in there, there's only a 7% belief rate.
And he goes, now some people bring this up to point out that the more educated you are,
the less you believe in religion.
But what I really want to know is, what's up with that 7%?
I'm really glad you brought that up, because I hate that he focuses on that.
You think they hate that?
Why?
Because he makes, I guess looking at it through this lens makes it sound much more reasonable.
I kind of took it to mean, because he doesn't like the confrontational about religion.
Yeah.
And so I took it to mean where he's like, look, 7% of scientists are religious, but they're
still doing science.
So let's just, you know, whatever.
I always took it the opposite way that, you know, what is going on that even the most
educated and intelligent people in society still have a 7% belief rate.
So they're referring to theism or both of the poly or mono there are some people that
are just the vaguely spiritual, like I see patterns in the connections.
But there are some people that are just hardcore scripturalists, even in those levels.
And probably somewhere on the spectrum between, you know, like, oh, it must mean something
that my phone rang right when I plugged it in, or, you know, the people who draw significance
from coincidences all the way down to like, I believe in ghosts.
And then I guess, yeah, somewhere near the bottom is sets, thousand year old earths.
Right.
I don't think any of those, you know, I don't think the, my phone rang, it's a coincidence
exists in the NAS people, but the fact that you can have this knowledge of how the world
works and how you're supposed to gather evidence and correlate evidence in your head, but still
have the special place in your head where all the tools that you have learned just don't
get applied because it's special is a unique failure.
I thought that's what Neil deGrasse Tyson was saying.
Maybe that is just my interpretation of his words.
What's, um, isn't that the Steven J. Gould separate magisteria?
It is.
Can I just, I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
No, please.
I just wanted to dismantle Gould's magisteria in one example.
One example?
Yeah.
Do it.
So it's a, it's a great way to like say, Hey, look, we can stop arguing.
Let's just, you know, play in our own sandboxes.
But the thing is no one would be content with that.
So like, say the Shroud of Turin contains DNA that was proven to only have mitochondrial
DNA and no like familial or no paternal lineage.
There's no religious person on earth who wouldn't freak out and be like, see that proves it.
That was Jesus.
And he didn't have a father.
See.
So like they, they're, they're fine.
Jesus did have a father and that father was God.
Oh yeah.
But does he have 23 chromosomes that he submitted to Mary when he knocked her up without asking?
Why not?
We don't know the details.
So were you there?
When I'm getting at those, I would, I would imagine that that, that finding would be relished
in a religious community as a strong evidence of the divinity of whoever was wearing that,
the Shroud of Turin.
Right.
So, um, or at least I think they would find a way to shoehorn it into look proof of Jesus
being magic.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Only positive evidence.
Well, that's my point, right?
So they, they're, they're fine to say separate magisteria whenever we point out something
that doesn't make sense.
Like you can't, uh, come back three days after being killed or you can't be born without
a father.
So.
Unless you're a non mammalian.
Right.
Well.
That's my, that's my biologist.
Um, are we bringing in the lizard people, as far as Ethiopian?
So reptilians, any bird people out there and definitely insect people, um, there's, uh,
there's definitely a probability that they could be born pathogenically without a father.
Okay.
Back to your regular programming.
I liked your, your interpretation of, of Tyson's query there.
Nice.
