for evidence if you had to narrow it down to one sentence. And the rationality thing is what do I
know and what do I think I know and how do I think or what do I think I know and why do I think I
know it. But speaking of hitch, there's a British writer named Douglas Murray who has a lot of the
same zeal and isn't afraid to say hard things like hitches. And he's worth checking out. Sam
Harris interviewed him on his podcast recently, or they had a dialogue rather, it's not really an
interview show. For me, there are selfish reasons, I guess, to, you know, be around saner people.
But I mean, that's sort of what I do anyway. And I already do that. So I satisfy that need
basically just by only going, you know, not not reading YouTube comments and setting up
less wrong meetups. But globally, it's, I guess it's the opposite of selfish, but it works for me
to everybody stands to benefit if if the waterline goes up. I also assume that we are going to at
some point in the not too terribly distant future reach, you know, greatly expanded lifespan, you
know, possibly functional immortality. And at that point, there's so many things it really annoys me
when people are like, Oh, well, that idea is fine. Just all its proponents will die off and the new
generation will take over racism, homophobia, things like that. And I'm like, that is not good
enough, because soon people will stop dying. And we need to have some way to update our beliefs.
Then that's what rationality gives us is the ability to change our minds when we find out we're
wrong. Right. And I think that's an incredibly important skill for everyone to have, especially
as we reach much longer lifespans. And the people that have the wrong ideas dying is one way for
the problem to kind of go away. But it's I think not the best way. What would be better, you know,
is almost as you know, a excuse to start killing people off that have the bad ideas, right? It's
one big step away, but it's on that path, right? So, but what would be better is if they change
their mind and live the rest of their lives, however long it was, you know, 10 years left or,
you know, 100 or 10 billion years left as saying or people, you know, but my thing is that there
is a good deal of Oh, shit. No, no, we're good. We're good. I stepped on the computer, but it's
fine. All right. Also, how long have we been recording? We should wrap it up, actually. Yeah.
That sucks. We didn't really talk that much. I wanted to get more into this. Well, maybe we'll
maybe we'll not get as tangentially off track. I enjoyed it. I did too. I had fun. I guess we
could come back to this topic at a later point. I think I think a good topic for next week might be
ways to actually do it because there are some fun ways that I wanted to bring up that I used to
to not next week, but next episode, right? Excuse me. Next episode, two weeks from now. Yeah.
That I use when I I don't really have any sacred cows and we can have maybe you two can have fun
trying to find one of mine. One of my beliefs that I just I hate talking about because I don't want
it to be wrong kind of thing. I like talking about those things. But there are there are strategies
to engage on those for things people don't like talking about. I think that's another great technique
of rationality that when you find out you're wrong about something, you don't view it as a
failure. You view it as you just got stronger. Like my map is now better. Or you should try to
view it that way. Yeah, it can be really hard. It can be tough to not just feel terrible about
being wrong. Right. Yeah. No. So I mean, and sometimes it's double-sided, right? You know,
you realize that, well, this PhD program that I've been into, you know, that I've been on the
trajectory for the last seven years, this isn't going to do it. I'm dropping out, you know. So
like that's that's going to be kind of a, you know, there are pros and cons ending a
relationship or whatever could be right. So let's do let's let's talk about that next time.
No, we should talk that about that in two episodes from now. Okay. Because next episode,
we are going to interview Elias Ryatowski. Are we there yet? I guess we're I guess we have to be.
Yeah. I'm going to talk with you guys about this right after that. But yeah. Well, all right.
Stay tuned next week, or excuse me, stay tuned for two weeks for our interview with Elias
Ryatowski. What? Oh, and a shout out on the very off chance that this person is listening.
If you were a CIS admin on the DS9 BBS in the 90s by the name of Pat Captain Picard,
I owe you so much and you rock. Katrina, any sign off? Bye. Goodbye, everybody. Thanks for listening.
