a devout fundamentalist. You know, like Alvin Plantigna writes papers and books. And he's he's
a philosopher who writes for religious apology, apologists. And he seems like a smart enough guy.
But then then you really struck a chord when you said that you need the motivation to change one
of our friends and we should have autumn on if we ever want to talk about losing a religion.
So we just our curiosity, how many here used to be like, you know, very strongly religious and got
rid of that? No, I was never very strongly religious. I was always an atheist, or at least
non religious. I started out extra like I was the opposite of Tim, where you said that, you know,
he took geology and he's like, Oh, well, that's false. Like I fought with people for years about,
you know, evolution and these things. It was eventually just a ponderance of all the evidence
in the world. And it broke me down. I want to meet Betty and Yash. Oh, my God, I got to give
so many props to this guy. I don't even know his real name. But he was this admin on a BBS that
would just chat with me for hours into the night. That's awesome. I was like, how can you not see
evolution is such a crock? And yeah, no, I never I never admitted it to him. Because I don't think
I changed while you know, I was still talking with him. But he planted the seed and over over
couple years it grew. I think that's how it works for a lot of people for myself. I don't know how
interesting this isn't solve the time to be brief. But I never was very religious, religious in my
family. My parents are both kind of like, believe in belief kind of people. Although I don't think
they know what believe in belief is. But that's sort of how I interpret their behavior. But we
never went to church. But it was mainly when I was 131415, I guess, starting to like actually
wake up as an actual human and not being just kind of like an like a well, I mean, like kids
unfair to children. No, children. I'll argue a bit that children have strong incentives to
stick to the beliefs of their parents. That's true. The scientists, at least until the what the
scientists children die quickly. Don't go over there. There's an alligator in that point.
Allow me to test. I want to test that. Yeah. Well, not just that, you know,
parents support you financially. They you have really strong incentives to stay on their good
side. Well, I meant I meant specifically in that I don't my memory of my childhood is very poor,
but I don't remember being reflective at all before the age of 131415. That's about memory is
somewhere within give or take two years there. Despite your lack of memory. I think that you
probably were I know I was. And I remember when I was a little girl, and I went to my parents and I
said, Mommy, Daddy is God. And they said, We don't know. See, my parents would say yes. My parents
said, We don't know. And I went off and became an atheist. So for myself, like I said, it was it was
and I don't know, I remember being a kid just to content to comment on my reflectiveness as a child.
I remember doing a lot of things and not really understanding why or not not reflecting hard
enough to actually do anything about it. Like remember like listening to the crappy music that
my classmates listened to, even though I didn't like it. And I remember thinking, I don't like this,
but listen to it because they like it, but never occurred to me to think one path one step past
that for maybe that's how a lot of people are. I don't know. I think I was constantly frustrated
as a child. And I actually wrote myself in when I was in first grade, I wrote myself a letter
to myself at age 18, saying, you need to treat little kids with respect. You need to listen.
So you kept that letter. I read it. I read it when I was in my late teens and laughed because
I was also really concerned that I was going to smoke or do drugs. That was the other part of
the letter to myself was like, by the way, apparently all teens do this. So according to the teacher,
so don't do that. I was really upset when I realized that I was going to be 20 when the year 2000
came along. And so I would be too mature to go out and enjoy myself. Oh, yeah. How old were you
when you had that thought? I must have been like nine or 10. I was like, Oh man, I'm going to be
adult then. I won't know how to party anymore. Luckily, you overestimated the maturity of adults.
But and to be clear, I don't I don't dehumanize children at nine was, you know, having a sleep
over in my pajamas. Hey, sounds like fun. Yeah. I don't I don't dehumanize children in the fact
that I don't treat them like people. That's that's sort of the opposite. I treat all all children
like they're basically full fledged adults. But so they like you a lot more. But importantly,
depends on the kid. So our society as a whole doesn't treat children like people. Otherwise,
you know, a kid who picked up his dad's gun and shot his neighbor would be sentenced to life in
prison. Right. So like, and they're they're very often not because they're they're not deemed
responsible for their actions. But what I wanted to say was, and it's a really quick thing,
since religion, like I said, is kind of passive in my house. When I first started questioning
about it, and I would ask my parents all the and as like I said, a young teenager pre driving age,
you could get two questions in and they'd be like, Well, that's that's just where faith comes in.
And like, Well, what's faith then? Like, Well, that's just you know, and I can't remember what their
answer was. But Richard Dawkins had the answer, faith is the license people give themselves to
believe something after reason fails. And that was their answer like to everything, like, Oh,
that's just faith. And then I realized that no one had any good answers. It's like, Okay, so all the
answers suck. So either you know, anyway, so a little bit after that, that I dropped it completely.
Speaking of Richard Dawkins, I wanted to mention he had a stroke on Saturday. Oh, no. Yeah, I didn't
know this until last night. But he's doing pretty well. He's expected to make a full recovery. But
that's kind of a bummer. It's always a bummer when someone has a stroke.
Agreed. Even if even if some people aren't fans, even even if some people are not fans of Richard
Dawkins, let me especially right now, let me only iterate to the audience that if you've only read
Richard Dawkins in tweet form, you're not doing him justice. He doesn't do himself justice for
why does he still get on Twitter? Daniel has even has even written to him saying, Look, I feel like
you're ruining your reputation. But read one of his books. I read the God Delusion when I was a
teenager after when I was going through all this. And actually, the last chapter basically got me
into feminism. I don't know if you read the God Delusion or not, but the whole last chapter is
on feminism. And I was as a kid, you know, I was like, Oh, well, things are fine. There's no,
there's no problems here. I was a kid. No one, no one I saw had any problems. That's that's what
I'm kind of kidding. Right? Yeah, he raised my consciousness to that issue. That's great intensely.
So I want to say that I don't know nearly enough about what's going on with Richard Dawkins now.
And I don't think I've read any of his works. I just cannot comment on it. And I have no
well formed opinion. Fair enough. But I will lend you Unweaving the Rainbow, which was one of my
favorite books. Okay. And he wrote it, it basically is a counterargument to the idea that science
makes the world less interesting. And maybe to bring it back to the podcast, you know, looking
at the world rationally makes things less interesting. Because you know, where's the magic
miracle? Exactly. Well, did Newton or did, um, yeah, did Newton ruin the rainbow by reducing
it to prismatic colors and figuring out how they're generated? Or did he add to it by saying,
this is this is how nature generates these things. And they're really cool, right? So it's a short
book link fonts to that, that challenge. So it was very fun. And, you know, regardless of his
whatever political problems he's been in, his things are still very he contributed a lot. And
they're very interesting to read. And you know, you shouldn't shun him entirely just because
he's kind of an ass hat. I tried to have an argument once on Twitter. And I'm on Twitter,
maybe five minutes a year now, but when I first got into it, and I was it was somebody was arguing
that male circumcision was as big a problem worldwide as female circumcision or female
genital mutilation. And I challenged, but you can't have an argument 140 characters. And after,
I don't know, half a dozen of these back and forth, I said, I don't think we're going to be able
to communicate effectively. Let's let's just stop. And I felt I quit responding to him Twitter is
probably the worst thing ever invented. And I don't I wouldn't go on there because you just
cannot say anything meaningful and 140 characters. I don't know if it's meant you can give you
Yeah, you can give sound bites and applause lights. And people can be like, yay, or boo,
but that's really all you can do. I got into it because I was attending a conference. And it was
a main thing where people could kind of live talk about other things that were going on and stuff.
It was kind of fun. You have to learn how to use Twitter. If you want to use it correctly. And I
never took the time to do that. But I follow comedians on there. And I got to say that they're
pretty good at it sometimes. They sure are. Yeah. And Anthony just on Nick, whenever a tragedy happens
worldwide, he says he gets text messages from from family members and friends saying don't
he'll he'll find some way to make it terrible. This is this is tangential. But how do you guys
feel about the whole not judging a work by its author? Because I remember when when
Ender's game, the movie came out, and everyone freaked out because Orson Scott Card is I'm not
sure if he's actually homophobic, because I didn't look that much into his you know, personal
He totally is. He is. Okay, I know he's a hardcore Mormon and Mormons are very structurally
homophobic or institutionally homophobic. So I you know, figure if he follows that religion,
he might be as well. But he is personally said. Yes, personally. But you know,
it doesn't change the fact that Ender's game itself is a fucking brilliant book.
That was like an awakening book. I loved that I read it in sixth grade. My piano teacher gave
it to me. Right. I read it last year. I know. But it was a lot of fun. And I liked it. It was
great. Everyone I knew who said they were boycotting the movie, like weren't losing anything because
they'd already read the book. And I was like, you're not giving anything up. And they weren't
giving anything up because the movie was terrible. Oh, was it? Oh, you saw it. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Well,
if it makes anyone feel better, I didn't pay for it. So it makes me feel worse, actually. Well,
I did buy a copy of Ender's game to read that. So whatever. Well, so I think there's two points.
One, you might say, well, his books could be fine, but I refuse to give him money because I
disagree with him and how he's spending it or something. But ultimately, I think that people
that believe weird or bad things can still be great authors. Apparently, I've never read them.
But the Chronicles of Narnia are a great book series for children. And they're written by
C.S. Lewis, the Christian Apologist. But he was such a nice person. Oh, maybe he was.
You can be a Christian Apologist, it turns out, and still be a great person.
Well, I meant like so, I guess, great person, insane person, bad person. So like, you know,
whatever the author's just position is that that you don't like about it or that or that you,
you know, want to identify with her support or something, right? Did you intentionally just
reference Lord Lyre or Lunatic? No. Oh, okay. But I like that, actually. All right.
Um, what they're talking about. It's God, was it C.S. Lewis that put forward the Lord Lyre or
Lunatic? Yes. Okay. Because I only remember that because Christopher Hitchens brought it up once.
Okay. And it's, it's an old argument that Jesus either, you know, but when you look at his thing,
yeah, he either was the Lord or he was a liar or he was a lunatic. And we can rule out Lunatic or
Lyre. So obviously, he was the Lord. He was a lunatic like everyone else. It's, it's a wonderful
argument if you already believe it leaves out the, it leaves out the hidden alternative of
honestly mistaken or legend. Yeah. Anything starting with an L. Right. Or just, you know,
some good ideas, some bad ideas, all kind of like humans generally do mixed up together.
Yes. Where were we? We were talking about authors. Yes. So I think that like, is there a limit?
Because if Hitler, you know, was still alive and in a prison somewhere, would it be okay to buy
mineconf to see what he said? Apparently, the book is terrible. And it's like the ravings of a child.
But it's, it has a great deal of historic value. Right. I was actually thinking about this recently
because I was reading a modern, a modern anthology, and you know, all female writers, lots of minority
authors. And one of the authors was somebody who had been called out by the writing community for
some really nasty behavior. Right. And she is alive and still writing. And I got to,
I got to her piece in the anthology. And I saw the name and I stopped for a moment.
And I'm like, how do I, if I do read this, how do I read it? Do I read it, you know,
completely separate from, from a knowledge of who this author is? Or how does that figure in? And
it's kind of confusing. Yeah. It's kind of confusing. I think that with creative people,
we give them a lot of license to be quirky. And, and, and we, we let ourselves consume what they
create, you know, if they're topically Kanye West, or who I've heard is an amazing artist.
You haven't, you haven't heard his stuff. Now, I've heard a lot of people that listen to a
rap that he's really freaking good at what he does. And they're sad that he sucks so much as a
person. So they should enjoy it. Just like, you know, when I was kind of sad that Christian Bale
said some mean things, because I like his acting. Oh, that's actually a great example. So Mel Gibson,
when he made an ass of himself, right, I can still enjoy Braveheart. I think you should still
enjoy Braveheart. I mean, this is not because I don't really know that many authors that are
bad people that I've read their books. But I'm trying to think, you know, it's like, I enjoy
some of the movies that, that spy guy, even Mission Impossible, why can't they Tom Cruise,
I enjoy some of his movies. But I remember specifically thinking when Mel Gibson went off
the rails, that I was like, you know what, I'm not, I'm not a fan of Mel Gibson, but I'm a fan of
William Wallace. You know, so like, they're, because, you know, he, whatever he, if he makes
money off the movie, he's going to make, I think they make money enough anyway. You know, it's
kind of like, I get the idea of not supporting it, but whatever. I don't know if I ever bought
that movie either. So for what that's worth. But, but, and, and this is a real life example,
what if you really enjoy ice cream? And your local ice cream shop is, is owned by a confirmed racist
person. You wouldn't want to support them by going and buying ice cream there and enjoying that product
of their labor. Are they actively racist or just like their racist on the inside and whatever,
but like, like, do they not serve minorities in their store? They don't hire minorities.
So there's so actively racist. Fair enough. Well, sometimes I think of like,
there was that nationwide example of Chick-fil-A, where the major owners donated tons and anti-gay
charities. And I actually, I did boycott Chick-fil-A for that reason. Although I have eaten there.
I boycott at Chick-fil-A because they serve chicken. Right. And I, I, I agree with you.
We need to talk. I have taken too hard to the argument that if we start patronizing businesses
based on the politics of the people who own them, then we will really just kind of have all the
businesses we can go to and divide the nation more into red and blue. And there's no real good reason
for it. I didn't mean specifically their politics. I meant specifically that apparently some fraction
of my spending money there would go towards anti-gay charity. Right. But does this say it's the same
situation that Inuyasha is talking about? Some fraction of money that I make was going to go
to causes that other people probably don't like. And yet, you know, do I want them to never buy
anything that I make or not hire me? Also, we all pay taxes. Right. What if, what if my employer is a
right-leaning Republican, but technically my employer is a right-leaning Republican? And he
would be like, oh, I'm sorry, you're too liberal. You can't have a job as an account. I'd be like,
what the hell does my liberalism have to do with my accounting work? It's like, I don't know. This
is just the way things run now. We only patronize people with the same politics as us. But that's,
that's a different basically goalpost to pick as they're talking about hiring people as opposed to
people shopping at your company. Yeah, but they're paying him. Yeah, they're paying me for my labor
as opposed to me paying them for their chicken. Well, then them saying they won't serve you
or that your, your, your, your employers hypothetically saying we won't hire you is
different than you saying I won't work for you, which is the, which is the choice you make as a
consumer. I won't buy from you. Not Chick-fil-A saying we won't serve gays. I got to say when they
never said that. And then that's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. They're two completely different
points. Yeah. Um, I'm inclined. I'm convinced after our little discussion here that we should
enjoy what we enjoy. I'm still sort of on the fence. I mean, unless, unless Chick-fil-A was
saying we don't serve gays, then you should definitely not go there. How intense they are,
which they didn't say. So like, but I didn't want to say, I have eaten a Chick-fil-A in the last
year because they lost the gay war thing or the gay rights war. And I'm not sure what their next
thing is, but I'm like, well, you know, well, you guys want to keep donating to that, whatever,
but you already lost. It's the weirdest thing. I don't have anything against Chick-fil-A on a
philosophical level, but I, you know, I don't go out to eat when I'm alone. If I'm alone, I'll grab
whatever I have in the fridge. And whenever I'm out and about, I'm with someone else. I'm like,
oh, I don't want to go into Chick-fil-A with this person right next to me. They'll judge me.
And that's maybe why we do that. So yeah, it's the social pressure that keeps me out.
