I've done so much solo driving lately that I think maybe that's why I've finally succumbed,
because other drive-through places are getting old. But they really do make a good check.
It occurs to me that we're getting really far off. Yeah, actually, I was, I was thinking about,
about the original topic and something that Ines said earlier about,
you know, assigning probabilities and after, you know, reading a series of blogs that he found
entertaining. So, so there was a survey of people who use less wrong. And I think that
the results of that were that there was no difference in calibration ability between people
who use less wrong and people who didn't, who are not members of less wrong. That's discouraging.
Is that so or encouraging? We're all we are all bad at calibration at these calibration exercises.
Although calibration exercises, I think are not quite the same thing as what we're discussing in
terms of, of raising the sanity water line. Because I think calibration is a slightly higher level
skill. Whereas we're talking about really, really basic things, like make everyone in the world
every now and then think, just as in the back of their mind, what do I know? And why do I think I
know it? So, I mean, the basic question of rationalism, right? Is why do I believe what I believe?
There's a great analogy to be made here between rationality as a skill and martial arts. And so,
you know, so like if you're great at calibration, you know, that could be the equivalent of you
being able to punch through a board. But that's not the same thing as being good at martial arts.
And so you might, you might be a really good fighter, but you're all Krav Magan, you know,
Brazilian jujitsu, it's not about breaking boards. So, do you see what I'm saying? Does that make
any sense? Yes, we need more research is what you're saying. That too. But I do like the analogy in
that. Well, it sucks, because we can't just put everything on hold until we conduct more research.
You know, because I mean, the research is currently being done, but it's taking a while,
as it should, because it's being done, I think, properly. But in the meantime, we don't want to
just hold off on all discussion until the results come in, because they're doing results on these
kinds of things. Well, I mean, and I think you mentioned previous previously, not while we were
recording this episode, that there's a lot of the people feel like it's making a difference
in their lives. There's anecdotal reports that learning rationality makes a difference. And I
mean, I can again, and we can all report anecdotally that I could say I went to my job in marketing,
and got into a fight with my boss about whether a study was robust enough to quote or something
like that, you know, because I'm coming from a science background. So, we know that we can
transfer knowledge anecdotally. And we know that it makes people feel better too. If they, I guess,
and we have a feeling that if people have the motivation that they can transfer what they
learn about rationality to other parts of their lives, I think they could. Yeah, I think it does
need to be that kind of that push moment, where you finally start trying to use what you know.
And for a lot of people that just doesn't come because things are pretty relaxed and, you know,
you have enough of a community that you don't need to, you know, so like, I'm imagining that
in some circles, being young, young earth creationist is like awesome.
Oh, yeah. So, but if I were to come out as a young earth creationist, my friend group would look at me
like I just came out as a Holocaust denier, you know, so there's no pressure for some people whose
society or social circles anyway, or already cool with them being the way they are to
bother changing. Yeah, I'm thinking about Tim's family in Eastern Tennessee, where everybody
pretty much believes the same way that they believe, they're surrounded with messaging
that confirms their beliefs and confirms that their that their society believes the same way
they believe. And it would be incredibly difficult to take somebody who's so comfortable out of bed,
I guess, and put them somewhere else. I think you'd be hard pressed to coerce them to get
themselves out of bed and go somewhere else. I think if you just get people to care enough
about figuring out how things actually are and making sure that their map is as close to reality
as they can get it, then the rest will shake out naturally. That's an interesting point,
and there's a good counter example, but I wanted to raise one thing first is that a lot of people
just don't really care. Yeah, it's weird. I even people that I'm really close with, you know, they're
just like, that's just not really my thing. I'm happy and I'm right, you know, and I've never
really understood how to get past the motivation problem. If someone just doesn't care, what do
you do? I don't care. Yeah. But what if you want to share with them all the cool stuff you like?
Well, I mean, I recently met somebody like that. And I was like, I was talking about, you know,
this and that and this incorrect belief and this new thing. And he just said,
yeah, I don't care about that. I am a simple guy. And the result was I was like, I am probably not
going to go on another date with you. Maybe the difference between people like that is that simple
to him as a compliment and to others, it's not. I think that gets us to the second part of the
question being, should we try to raise the sanity waterline? Oh, I wanted to raise an example,
though, about having your counter example. Well, once you have a desire to, I guess, apply
Bayesian thinking and map territory distinctions to the real world, wasn't the the creator of
Amund's agreement theorem or Amund's RBC's last name? Wasn't he a, wasn't he some,
wasn't he a Jehovah's Witness or a fundamentalist or something? I don't know. Let me check.
I think he may have been a fundamentalist. I don't think that he was a Jehovah's Witness, though.
Although I could be wrong. I mean, I'm thinking if he was, then we would have told us.
Do you know every Jehovah's Witness? Well, I knew Michael Jackson was Jehovah's Witness,
I guess. I just learned that Michael Jackson was a Jehovah's Witness. I just, I just learned
that right the second. Oh, yeah. That's what I mean, yeah. Oh, okay. But on the other hand,
he's like a celebrity, so that would probably be brought up more often than someone no one's ever
heard of. Well, not no one, but someone that most people in my church wouldn't have heard of.
Everyone had heard of Michael Jackson. Yeah, it's true. So while you're looking,
while you're looking up whatever you're looking at, Stephen. Couldn't find it. Okay.
I was thinking the should we question, that hearkens back to that 7% of whatever kind of
scientist that Neil deGrasse Tyson was talking about. And if they're doing good work, you know,
bless their hearts, they can believe whatever the heck they want. That's how I feel.
I would feel that way if I thought that was possible. So like Francis Collins, the director of the
National Institute of Health appointed by Barack Obama as Young Earth Creationist.
And a lot of health people are. But it's weird because he's the director of the NIH. So like,
it would be fine if he was going to be a health now on his own little blog. Right. But he's actually
pretty good as the director of health. He doesn't let that interfere with his science. Well, in his
presentations, he comes right out and challenges evolution. You know, and so I would not a very
good role model. Well, so I just worry about the health decisions that someone like that might
make, you know, regarding a rapidly evolving pandemic spreading across the States, virus
epidemiology or something, right? So, oh, well, you know, once we vaccinate it, it'll be fine.
You know, in 100% of people all the time, because it can't possibly change. Well, he clearly doesn't
actually believe that. People who are anti evolution generally believe in micro evolution.
This applies to Tim's extended family. So Tim's, I guess, immediate family. So
they can still do things like fight pandemics. So I'll be generous to Collins then. And let's
pretend that he does that all of this. And I guess I'm not sure. So let's let's set as given then
that that his sciences sound as as often as the best atheist scientist. Then I wonder what is
going on in his head that makes him so confident in his religion, while at the same time being a
great scientist. In his book, he talks about seeing a he is on a on a retreat to find himself
spiritually. You saw frozen waterfall frozen into three separate paths. And was there a rainbow?
Probably double. But the thing is, is that the the frozen waterfall said that the triple stream
frozen waterfall spoke to him of the Trinity. And then he says he fell to his knees except
Jesus into his heart. Wow. And so but I'm wondering about that, because, and I think Sam Harris said
that a frozen waterfall can prove the divinity of or the truth of Christianity than anything can
prove anything. Right. Well, I mean, that obviously wasn't his true reason. But he had a spiritual
experience, I guess. But some a lot of us have those anyway. And a lot of us don't attribute
things that can't be attributed to them to them. Right. So I think that's actually one of the
good reasons to want to raise the sanity waterline, because we well, I don't know if we all have,
but I've had spiritual experiences before. Sure. Yeah. But you can you can interpret them in light
of Oh, okay, this is probably what's actually happening. As opposed to Oh, God, there's actually
aliens behind me, which was my case or there were actually aliens behind you. There were was amazing.
Oh, well, it was. Do you really want to know? Yeah. Okay. This was back when I was still smoking.
And I was out on the porch at a friend's house, you know, way after dark having a cigarette.
And I was the only one out there. And this light came on behind me. And it was just over the rooftop.
So I couldn't see the source. But it looked exactly like a UFO was about to come over.
I was like, Oh, my God. And I totally had this this flush, this absolute certainty that there
were aliens and UFOs. And I was going to get taken right now. Or if I wasn't, you know,
something else was going to happen with aliens. And and that didn't happen. But still the whole
time I was like, Okay, I know there's aliens right behind me watching me. But the entire time in my
head, I was like, but I know what's actually causing this is nothing to do with real aliens,
the probability of aliens showing up just now and, you know, various all the other things that
that go through your head, your priors of how extremely unlikely this is and what evidence
I'm actually seeing. Oh, just a bright light. And so forth, where I was able to dismiss that
this deep emotional reaction within me feels really cool. But it has nothing to do with what
is actually happening in the world behind me to bring children up again. We've all been children.
And I can neither confirm nor deny it. You're just talking, you don't remember your childhood
pre 12 years old. That's why he can't confirm or deny. But we've all been kids and we've all
I had a really realistic dream one night and I was convinced that there were ghost flamingos
living in our attic. But that's really then later, I realized that couldn't have happened
because I was way too much of a scaredy cat to go to the attic at night on my own. So I wouldn't
have gone there in the first place to see the ghost flamingos. Damn, that's how I just proved
that way. Use meta knowledge as a kid. That's fantastic. But we all we've all had those those
experiences that I think aren't as common for most people as we go into adulthood, as we get more,
as we develop more priors, right? As we have more evidence in our lives. But but we can still
remember how things used to be and and I think conceive that we might be going through something
similar. Right? I think I'm working with a different definition of spiritual experience
than the ones you guys described because I mean, I've had, you know, I was I was raised
a Unitarian Universalist, and I have had very spiritual experiences while sitting in the sanctuary
at midnight while somebody rang a gong. I've had incredibly meaningful deep moving experiences in
interior Del Fuego watching a glacier calf while while South American parakeets flying by.
You know, I I know what you're talking about. Yeah, that's in addition to I guess what I was
talking about, which was more of a supernatural experience. Okay, yes, that's the distinction
I was I was thinking of. Like a spiritual experience, I can imagine, or I can remember
times, you know, and I can kind of put myself in the right mindset and sort of generate them,
not whenever I want, but with a little effort, more or less whenever I want. And, you know,
I can go outside, look at the stars, think about, and I can just think of the path from
light like that to the atoms in our bodies to, you know, the long chain of evolution that led
to us being here. To me, that's that's deeply profound. And what I can only imagine is similar
to what people talk about when they talk about spiritual experiences. I'm trying to remember
any supernatural experiences I've ever had. I remember I went along with a lot of them when
I was a kid. My friends would pretend they would say they saw ghosts and pretend that I did too
to agree with them. I can't remember. Or you even imagine that you might have, if enough people said
that they saw it. I don't remember ever actually believing I knew I was lying to myself the whole
time. I knew I was lying to them the whole time. But I would play along without spoiling the fun.
Unless there's some time when I was younger that I can't remember. But yeah.
You know why I personally think we should raise the Sanity Waterline if possible?
Why? Yeah, why? Like as a selfish reason why? Because I mean, obviously all last episode we
were talking about how it makes your own life better if you can be rational because you have
a better grasp of the world and you know how you can change it and and alter your surroundings. But
as a selfish reason why I think it'd be a good reason to to raise the Sanity Waterline overall
in the world is because we are an incredibly interconnected species nowadays. I guess we
always have been. But it's just it's gotten ridiculous how much we all depend on each other
nowadays to survive or to do anything meaningful. And in that case, a lot of life comes down to
iterated prisoners, dilemma type situations or coordination problems with other people.
And the more rational the people that you're coordinating with, the better allies you have
just not even allies, co-workers, people you know that you have to rely on. If they're more
rational, things just work better in general. You can count on them more, you can, you know,
put more trust in what they're doing. They have to be rational in a certain way.
If you're doing a, you know, if there's a tragedy of the common's problem, right? If there's a
fisheries problem, the religion of the people involved is not really going to matter. But there
are, you know, other ways in which they need to be rational in order to work with you, right?
Yeah. That's the kind of rationality I mean, mainly. Like religion, people can be religious.
And that's fine with me as long as it doesn't adversely affect the world. But I would still
like them to be slightly more rational. And with the analogy, the waterline specifically
involves the fact that people can, like Francis Collins can exist shows that there's some deeper
problem there, right? Yeah. I think getting rid of the Francis Collins is, of the world,
is a different task than getting rid of the Ken hams, right? Hey, also, I don't like the term
getting rid of individual people. That's why I don't want to knock them off. Let me be perfectly
clear. That's why I used plural on both of them. And then I realized too that I was kind of stuck
with it after I already said it. So more like the method of thinking that least that sort of
absolutely. Yeah, no, no, I am absolutely not for in any way, quote, unquote, getting rid of
these people. So let me just put that on the record. Although I do think that hams a butt.
Yes, I think so too. I tried to watch the Hamon Nye debate. And I told myself going in,
I'm going to watch the whole thing. And I couldn't I started skipping and just watching Bill Nye's
segments. But I did give it an honest effort. But every every thing out of that guy's mouth was,
well, we have a book that has that in it didn't really matter who he was talking,
you get the feeling that no matter who he was talking against, it would have been the exact
same speech. Yeah, he just he ignored his opponent and comes out and just does his own spiel.
Wow. Yeah, we did not get what a debate is about. So well, that's what I mean, I think what he got
out of it, what he got out of it was actually quite a bit of funding and attention. So I think
that I'm getting to be on the same stage as Bill Nye. So he gets some, you know,
the rub off, get some cred. Yeah, man, he must people must be taken in pretty seriously. Bill
Nye himself is going to argue with this guy, right? Right. Yeah, I think that happened. That's
that was all the discussion leading up to it. That's why I like Richard Dawkins doesn't take
debates anymore, or at least with depending on the topic, but he doesn't argue religion anymore.
For that reason, you know, for everyone's hitch. Yes, it was so good. There was Oh,
I wanted to mention speaking of hitch that reminded me of just because watching him
it like in a debate was watching like a boxer, someone who really knows how to fight. And, you
know, even if he doesn't necessarily make the best points, just his delivery was so artistic.
You just loved watching him argue, be like, you know what, hitch, for this next argument,
I want you to argue the young earth creations position go and I would still come out rooting
for him because of the way he deliver things. Hey, listeners, if we have any funny, funny
backstory here, we were talking about how we didn't want this to be a skeptics or anti-religion
podcast. Well, we can bring it to more, more challenging issues, right? Yeah. Because like
that's sort of that's easy. Once again, fruit. Right. So skepticism again, like I said, it's
great rationality one point or like, you know, maybe 0.5, I don't know. But it's, I think it's
the easier version of rationality. You know, their one thing is what's a reasonable standard
