and also if you think I am wrong.
This is part of the province of one or two sciences such as physiology and psychology
and, of course, it is also part of the province of philosophy.
It has been called reflection or reflective thinking,
but for the same reasons as before, I shall reject the simpler and more elegant term
and call it beta thinking.
It should be particularly noted that the distinction here made between alpha thinking
and beta thinking is not one between two different kinds of thinking,
such as, for instance, that which is sometimes made between analytical thinking
on the one hand and synthetic or imaginative thinking on the other.
It is purely a distinction of subject matters.
The three operations, figuration, alpha thinking and beta thinking,
are clearly distinguishable from one another,
but that is not to say that they are divided by impassable barriers
at the points where they mutually approach.
Indeed, the reverse is true.
Moreover, they may affect each other by reciprocal influence.
In the history of the theory of color, for instance,
color began by being regarded as a primary quality of the colored object
and was later transferred to the status of a secondary quality dependent on the beholder.
Here we can detect the interaction of alpha thinking and beta thinking
and, again, in the whole influence which experimental science has exerted on philosophy
in the last two or three hundred years.
This book, on the other hand, will be more concerned with the interaction
between figuration and alpha thinking.
That the former of these effects and largely determines the latter
hardly needs saying since the primary product of figuration
is the actual subject matter of most alpha thinking.
That the converse may sometimes also be true and further
that the borderline between the one and the other is sometimes quite impossible to determine.
This is less obvious.
Yet a little serious reflection, that is, a little beta thinking,
makes it apparent enough.
Recall for a moment the familiar jingle from Sylvie and Bruno
with its persistent refrain of He Thought He Saw,
followed by He Found He Was.
He thought he saw a banker's clerk descending from the bus.
He looked again and found it was a hippopotamus.
This is, of course, only a very improbable instance of an experience
which, in itself, is quite common,
especially with those among our representations,
and they form the overwhelming majority,
which reach us through the sense of sight alone.
When we mistake one representation, that is to say one thing for another,
so that there is a transition from an I thought I saw to an I found it was,
it is often very difficult indeed to say whether there is first a figuration
based, let us say, on incomplete sensation,
and then another and different figuration, producing a different representation,
or whether there is one and the same representation
veiled from us at first by some incorrect alpha thinking,
which is subsequently discarded as inapplicable.
In the particular case of a puzzled man trying to describe an object
spotted from far off at sea, it feels more like the latter.
Often it feels much more like the former.
We have made the mistake before we are aware of having done any thinking at all.
Anyone who wishes to investigate this further should attend carefully
to the sort of mistakes we are apt to make on awakening abruptly from deep sleep
in a darkened room, especially if it happens to be a strange room.
Either way we must conclude that figuration, whether or no it is a kind of thinking,
is something which easily and imperceptibly passes over into thinking,
and into which thinking easily and imperceptibly passes over.
For in both cases there was a representation, otherwise I should not have been deceived.
And if the first representation was the result of incorrect thinking,
then thinking can do something very much like what figuration does.
Alternatively, if it was the result of figuration alone,
then the very fact that figuration can make a mistake
suggests that it has a good deal in common with thinking.
