Saving the Appearances, a Study in Idolatry by Owen Barfield, 2nd Edition
2. Collective Representations
A representation is something I perceive to be there.
By promising that the everyday world is a system of collective representations,
it may be thought that we blur the distinction between the fancied and the actual,
or following everyday use of language, between the apparently there and the really there.
But this is not so.
It only seems to be so because of the very great emphasis which,
especially in the last three or four hundred years,
the Western mind has come to lay on the ingredient of spatial depth
in the total complex of its perception.
I shall return to this later.
As to what is meant by collective,
any discrepancy between my representations and those of my fellow men
raises a presumption of unreality and calls for explanation.
If, however, the explanation is satisfactory,
if, for instance, it turns out that the discrepancy was due not to my hallucination,
but to their myopia or their dullness,
it is likely to be accepted,
and then my representation may itself end by becoming collective.
It is, however, not necessary to maintain that collectivity is the only test
for distinguishing between a representation and a collective representation,
though to creatures for whom insanity is round the corner,
it is often likely to be the crucial one.
I am hit violently on the head and, in the same moment, perceive a bright light to be there.
Later on, I reflect that the light was not really there.
Even if I had lived all my life on a desert island where there was no one to compare notes with,
I might do as much.
No doubt I should learn by experience to distinguish the first kind of light
from the more practicable light of day or the thunderbolt,
and should soon give up hitting myself on the head at sunset
when I needed light to go on working by.
In both cases I perceive light,
but the various criteria of difference between them,
duration, for instance, and a sharp physical pain,
which the one involves and the other does not,
are not difficult to apprehend.
What is required is not to go on stressing the resemblance
between collective representations and private representations,
but to remember when we leave the world of every day
for the discipline of any strict inquiry that,
if particles or the unrepresented are, in fact, all that is independently there,
then the world we all accept as real is, in fact, a system of collective representations.
Perception takes place by means of sense organs,
though the ingredient in it of sensation, experienced as such,
varies greatly as between the different senses.
In touch I suppose we come nearest to sensation without perception.
In sight to perception without sensation.
But the two most important things to remember about perception are these.
First, that we must not confuse the percept with its cause.
I do not hear undulating molecules of air.
The name of what I hear is sound.
I do not touch a moving system of waves or of atoms and electrons
with relatively vast empty spaces between them.
The name of what I touch is matter.
Second, I do not perceive any thing with my sense organs alone,
but with a great part of my whole human being.
Thus I may say loosely that I hear a thrush singing,
but in strict truth, all that I ever merely hear,
all that I ever hear simply by virtue of having ears, is sound.
When I hear a thrush singing, I am hearing not with my ears alone,
but with all sorts of other things like mental habits, memory,
imagination, feeling, and, to the extent at least that the act of attention
involves it, will.
Of a man who merely heard in the first sense,
it could meaningfully be said that having ears, i.e. not being deaf,
he heard not.
I do not think either of these two maxims depends on any particular theory
of the nature of perception.
They are true for any theory of perception I ever heard of,
with the possible exception of Bishop Berkeley's.
They are true whether we accept the Aristotelian and medieval conception
of form and matter, or the Kantian doctrine of the forms of perception,
or the theory of specific sense energy,
or the primary imagination of Coleridge,
or the phenomenology that underlies existentialism,
or some wholly unphilosophical system of physiology and psychology.
On almost any received theory of perception, the familiar world,
i.e. the world which is apprehended, not through instruments and inference,
but simply, is for the most part dependent upon the recipient.
3. Vigoration and Thinking
In the conversion of raindrops into a rainbow, or, if you prefer it,
the production of a rainbow out of them,
the i plays a no less indispensable part than the sunlight,
or than the drops themselves.
In the same way, for the conversion of the unrepresented into a representation,
at least one sentient organism is as much a sine qua non
as the unrepresented itself,
and for the conversion of the unrepresented into representations
even remotely resembling our everyday world,
at least one nervous system organized about a spinal cord culminating in a brain
is equally indispensable.
The rainbow analogy does not imply,
nor is it intended to suggest,
that the solid globe is as insubstantial as a rainbow.
The solid globe is solid.
The rainbow is not.
Only it is important to know what we mean by solidity.
More than that, it is necessary to remember what we meant by solidity in one context
when we go on to use the word or think the thing in another.
It is easy to appreciate that there is no such thing as an unseen rainbow.
It is not so easy to grasp that there is no such thing as an unheard noise,
or rather it is easy to grasp but difficult to keep hold of,
and this is still more the case when we come to the sense of touch.
Obvious as it may be to reflection that a system of waves or quanta or discrete particles
is no more like solid matter than waves of air are like sound or raindrops like a rainbow,
it is not particularly easy to grasp,
and it is almost impossible to keep in mind that there is no such thing as unfelt solidity.
It is much more convenient when we are listening, for example, to the geologist
to forget what we learned about matter from the chemist and the physicist,
but it really will not do.
We cannot go on forever having it both ways.
It may be expedient at this point to examine a little further the collective representations
and our thinking about them,
and it is clearly of little use to begin by asking what they are,
since they are everything that is obvious.
They are, for instance, the desk I am writing at,
the noise of a door being opened downstairs,
a union jack, an altar in a church,
the smell of coffee, a totem pole,
the view from Malvern Hill,
and the bit of brain tissue that is being dissected before a group of students in a hospital laboratory.
Some of them we can manipulate, as the lecturer is doing,
and as I do when I move the desk.
Some of them we cannot.
What is important here is that there are, broadly speaking,
three different things that we can do with all of them, or alternatively,
they are related to the mind in three different ways.
First, we can simply contemplate or experience them,
as when I simply look at the view or encounter the smell.
The whole impression appears then to be given to me in the representation itself,
for I am not, or I am not very often,
aware of smelling an unidentified smell,
and then thinking, that is coffee.
It appears to me, and appears instantly, that I smell coffee,
though in fact I can no more merely smell coffee
than I can merely hear a thrush singing.
This immediate impression or experience of a familiar world
has already been mentioned in Chapter 2.
It is important to be clear about it.
It is plainly the result of an activity of some sort in me,
however little I may recollect any such activity.
When a lady complained to Whistler that she did not see the world he painted,
he is said to have replied,
No, ma'am, but don't you wish you could?
Both Whistler and the lady were really referring to that activity,
which in Whistler's case was intenser than the lady's.
Aught it to be called a mental activity?
Whatever it ought to be called,
it really is the Percipient's own contribution to the representation.
It is all that in the representation, which is not sensation.
For as the organs of sense are required to convert
the unrepresented particles into sensations for us,
so something is required in us to convert sensations into things.
It is the something that I mean,
and it will avoid confusion if I purposely choose
an unfamiliar and little-used word and call it,
at the risk of infelicity, figuration.
Let me repeat it.
On the assumption that the world whose existence is independent
of our sensation and perception consists solely of particles,
two operations are necessary,
and whether they are successive or simultaneous is of no consequence,
in order to produce the familiar world we know.
First, the sense organs must be related to the particles
in such a way as to give rise to sensations,
and secondly, those mere sensations must be combined
and constructed by the Percipient mind
into the recognizable and nameable objects we call things.
It is this work of construction which will here be called figuration.
Now, whether or no figuration is a mental activity,
that is, a kind of thinking,
it is clearly not or it is not characteristically a thinking about.
The second thing, therefore, that we can do with the representations
is to think about them.
Here, as before, we remain unconscious of the intimate relation
which they in fact have as representations
with our own organisms and minds,
or rather, more unconscious than before.
For now, our very attitude is, to treat them as independent of ourselves,
to accept their outness as self-evidently given
and to speculate about or to investigate their relations with each other.
One could perhaps name this process theorizing or theoretical thinking
since it is exactly what is done in most places where science is pursued,
whether it be botany, medicine, metallurgy, zoology, or any other.
But I do not think the term is wide enough.
The kind of thing I mean covers other studies as well,
a good deal of history, for instance.
Nor need it be systematic.
There are very few children who do not do a little of it.
Moreover, if a common word is chosen,
there is the same danger of confusion arising from its occasional use
with a less precise intention.
Therefore, at the like hazard as before,
I propose to call this particular kind of thinking alpha thinking.
Thirdly, we can think about the nature of collective representations as such
and therefore about their relation to our own minds.
We can think about perceiving and we can think about thinking.
We can do, in fact, the kind of thinking which I am trying to do at the moment
and which you will be doing if you think I am right
