definition? How do we get the metric out from its responsibilities? It's been
assigned far too many responsibilities. It's responsible for a volume form, for
differential operators, it's responsible for measurement, it's responsible for
being a dynamical field, part of the field content of the system. Lastly, we
have the compatibilities between Yang-Mills and the Dirac theory. These
may be the most mild of the various incompatibilities, but it is an
incompatibility of naturality. Where the Dirac field, Einstein's field, and the
connection fields are all geometrically well motivated, we push a lot of the
artificiality that we do not understand into the potential for the scalar field
that gives everything its mass. So we tend to treat it as something of a
mysterious fudge factor. So the question is, if we have a Higgs field, why is it
here, and why is it geometric? It has long been the most artificial sector of
our models. The proposal that I want to put to you today is that one of the
reasons that we may be having trouble with unification is, is that the duty, our
duty, may be to generalize all three vertices before we can make progress.
That's daunting because in each case it would appear that we can make an
argument that this, that, and the other vertex are the simplest possible theories
that could live at that vertex. We know, for example, the Dirac operator is the
most fundamental of all the elliptic operators in Euclidean signature
generating all of the Tia-Singer theory. We know that Einstein's theory is in
some sense a unique spin to massless field capable of communicating gravity
which can be arrived at from field theoretic rather than geometric
considerations. In the Yang-Mills case it can be argued that the Yang-Mills theory
is the simplest theory that can possibly result. Where we're taking the simplest
Lagrangian in the Einstein case looking only at the scalar curvature, in the
Yang-Mills case we have no substructure, and so we're doing the most simple-minded
thing we can do by taking the norm square of the curvature and saying
whatever the field strength is let's measure that size. So if each one of
these is simplest possible doesn't Occam's razor tell us that if we wish to
remain in geometric field theory that we've already reached bottom and what
we're being asked to do is to abandon this as merely an effective theory? That's
possible and I would say that that in some sense represents a lot of
conventional wisdom. But there are other possibilities. There are other possibilities
that while each of these may be simplest in its category they are not
simplest in their interaction. For example we know that Dirac famously took the
square root of the Klein-Gordon equation to achieve the Dirac equation. He
actually took two square roots one of the differential operator and another of
the algebra on which it acts. But could not could we not do the same thing by
reinterpreting what we saw in Donaldson theory, in Chern-Simon's theory, and
finding that there are first-order equations that imply second-order
equations that are nonlinear and in the curvature? So let's imagine the
following. We replace the standard model with a true second-order theory. We
imagine that general relativity is replaced by a true first-order theory
and then we find that the true second-order theory admits of a square
root and can be linked with the true first-order theory. This would be a
program for some kind of unification of Dirac's type but in the force sector. The
question is does this really make any sense? Are there any possibilities to do
any such thing? So what I'd like to do is I'd like to talk a little bit about
what the geometric unity proposal is. So we have a division into intrinsic theories
and auxiliary theories between physics and mathematics, more specifically
geometry. An intrinsic physical theory would be general relativity. An auxiliary
physical theory would be the Yang-Mills theory with the freedom to choose
internal quantum numbers. At the mathematical level an intrinsic theory
would be, let's be a little fastidious, the older semi-Romanian geometry, a study
of manifolds with length and angle. But auxiliary geometry is really what's
taken off of late since the revolution partially begun at Oxford when
his singer brought insights from Stony Brook to the UK. And so we're going to
call this fiber bundle theory or modern gauge theory. Geometric unity is the
search for some way to break down the walls between these four boxes. What's
natural to one theory is unnatural to another. Semi-Romanian geometry is
dominated by these projection operators as well as the ability to use the
Levy-Chavita connection. Now some aspects of this are less explored. Torsion
tensors are definable in semi-Romanian geometry but they are not used to the
extent that you might imagine. In the case of fiber bundle theory the discovery
of physicists that the gauge group was fantastically important came as
something of a shock to the mathematicians who had missed that structure
and have since exploited it to great effect. So what we'd like to do is we'd
like to come up with some theory that is intrinsic but allows us to play some of
the games that exist in other boxes. How can we try to have our cake
eat it and use all the full suite of techniques that are available to us. So
our perspective is that it is the quantum that may be the comparatively
easy part and that the unification of the geometry which is not occurred may be
what we're being asked to do. So let's try to figure out what would a final
theory even look like. When I was a bit younger I remember reading this question
of Einstein which he said I'm not really interested in some of the details of
physics what really concerns me is whether the creator had any choice in
how the world was constructed. And some people may have read that as a
philosophical statement but I took that as an actual call for a research
program. So I'd like to describe that research program and try to unpack what
I think he was saying. We talk a lot about unification but we hardly ever
actually imagine if we had a unified theory what would it look like. Let us
imagine that we cannot figure out the puzzle of why is there something rather
than nothing. But if we do have a something that that something has as
little structure as possible but still invites us to work mathematically. So to
me the two great theories that we have mathematically and in physics are
calculus and linear algebra. If we have calculus and linear algebra I'm gonna
imagine that we have some manifold at least one of dimension four but it's
not a space time it doesn't have a metric it's not broken down into two
different kinds of coordinates which then have some bleed into each other but
still maintains a distinction it's just some sort of flabby proto space time.
And in the end it's got to fill up with stuff and give us some kind of an
equation. So let me write an equation.
So I have in mind differential operators parameterized by some fields omega which
when composed are not of second order if these are first-order operators but of
zero-width order and some sort of further differential operator saying that
whatever those two operators are in composition is in some sense harmonic. Is
such a program even possible. So if the universe is in fact capable of being the
fire that lights itself is it capable of managing its own flame as well and
closing up. What I'd like to do is to set ourselves an almost impossible task
which is to begin with this little data in a sandbox to use the computer science
concept. So if here's physical reality standard physics is over here we're
going to start with a sandbox and all we're going to put in it is x4 and we're
going to set ourselves a straight-jacketed task of seeing how close we can
come to dragging out a model that looks like the natural world that follows this
trajectory. While it may appear that that is not a particularly smart thing to do I
would like to think that we could agree that it is quite possible that if that
were to be the case we might say that this is what Einstein meant by a creator
which was his anthropomorphic concept for necessity and elegance and design
having no choice in the making of the world. So with that let us begin to think
about what we mean today by geometric unity. GU comes in four flavors but I'm
only getting one shot to do this so I'm going to do the most exciting of them to
me. There's a completely exogenous flavor and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take the concept of observation and I'm going to break the world into two pieces.
A place where we do our observation and a place where most of the activity takes
place and I'm going to try to do this without loss of generality. So in this
case we have x4 and it can map into some other space and we're going to call this
an Observerse. The idea of an Observerse is a bit like a stadium you have a
playing field and you have stands. They aren't distinct entities they're coupled
and so fundamentally we're going to replace one space with two. Exogenous
model simply means that you is unrestricted although larger than x4 so
any manifold of four dimension higher that is capable of admitting x4 as an
immersion. The next model we have is the bundle
theoretic in which case u sits over x as a fiber bundle. The most exciting which is
the one we'll deal with today is the endogenous model. Where x4 actually
grows the space u where the activity takes place. So we talk about extra
dimensions but these are in some sense not extra dimensions they're implicit
dimensions within x4 and last to proceed without loss of generality we have the
tautological model. In that case x4 equals u and the immersion is the
identity and without loss of generality we simply play our games on one space.
Now we need rules. The rules are no choice of fundamental metric so we
imagine that Einstein was presented with a fork in the road and it's always
disturbing not to follow Einstein's path but we're in fact going to turn
Einstein's game on its head and see if we can get anywhere with that right. It's
also a possibility that because Einstein's theory is so perfect that if
there's anything wrong with it it's very hard to unthink it because
everything is built on top of it. So let's make no choice of fundamental metric
and in fact let's go more ambitious and let's say we're going to reverse the
logic of Einstein. Einstein the metric is fundamental but the Levy-Chavita
connection from which we deduce the curvature is emergent. So the
fundamental theorem of Riemannian geometry is that every metric causes
a connection to emerge and then the curvature is built on the connection.
We turn this around we imagine we're looking for a connection and we wish it
to build a metric because connections are amenable to quantization in a way
that metrics are not. The next point is that we always want to have a plan to
return to finite dimensions without losing sight of the quantum and lastly
we want to liberate matter from its dependence on the metric for its very
existence. So we now need to build fermions onto our four-dimensional
manifold in some way without ever choosing a metric if we're even to have
any hope of playing a game involving matter starting from this perspective of
no information other than the most bare information. Let's get started. We take
x4. We need metrics we have none. We're not allowed to choose one so we do the
standard trick is we choose them all. So we allow u14 to equal the space of
metrics on x4 point-wise. Therefore if we propagate on top of this, let me call
this the projection operator, if we propagate on u14 we are in some sense
following a Feynman-like idea of propagating over the space of all
metrics but not at a field level at a point-wise, tensorial level. Is there a
metric on u14? Well we both want one and don't want one. If we had a metric from
the space of all metrics we could define fermions but we would also lock out any
ability to do dynamics. We want some choice over what this metric is but we
don't want full choice because we want enough to be able to define the matter
fields to begin with. It turns out that if this is x4 and this is this
particular endogenous choice of u14, we have a ten-dimensional metric along the
fibers. So we have a g10 mu nu. Further for every point in the fibers we get a
metric downstairs on the base space. So if we pull back the cotangent bundle, we
get a metric g4 mu nu on pi star of the cotangent bundle of x. We now define the
chimeric bundle. And the chimeric bundle is the direct sum of the vertical
tangent bundle along the fibers with the pullback, which we're going to call the
horizontal bundle, from the base space. So the chimeric bundle is going to be the
vertical tangent space of ten dimensions to u, direct sum, the four-dimensional
cotangent space, which we're going to call horizontal to u. And the great thing
about the chimeric bundle is that it has an a priori metric. It's got a metrics on
the four, a metric on the ten, and we can always decide that the two of them are
naturally perpendicular to each other. Furthermore, it is almost canonically
isomorphic to the tangent bundle or the cotangent bundle because we either have
four out of fourteen or ten out of fourteen dimensions on the nose. So the
question is, what are we missing? And the answer is that we're missing exactly the
data of a connection. So this bundle, chimeric, c, we have c is equal to the
tangent bundle of u up to a choice of a connection theta. And this is exactly what
we wanted. We have a situation where we have some field on the manifold x in the
form of a connection, which is amenable, more friendly to quantization, which is
now determining a metric, turning around the Levy-Chivita game. And the only
problem is, is that we've had to buy ourselves into a different space than the
one we thought we wanted to work on. But now, as theta changes, the fermions are
defined on the chimeric bundle, and it's the isomorphism from the chimeric bundle
to the tangent bundle of the space u, which is varying, which means that the
fermions no longer depend on the metric, they no longer depend on the theta
connection. They are there if things go quantum mechanical. And we've achieved our
objective of putting the matter fields and the spin one fields on something of the
same footing. But, and I want to emphasize this, one thing most of us, we think a lot
about final theories and about unification. But until you actually start
daring to try to do it, you don't realize what the process of it feels like. Now,
try to imagine conducting your life where you have no children, let's say, and no
philanthropic urges. What you want to do is you want to use all of your money for
yourself and die penniless, right, like a perfect finish. Assuming that that's what
you wanted to do, it would be pretty nerve-wracking at the end, right? How many
days left do I have? How many dollars left do I have? This is the process of
unification in physics. You start giving away all of your most valuable
possessions. And you don't know whether you've given them away too early, whether
you've husband them too long. And so in this process, what we've just done is
we've started to paint ourselves into a corner. We got something we wanted, but
