we've given away freedom. We're now dealing with a 14-dimensional world.
So let me just sum this up by saying, between fundamental and emergent, standard
model and GR. Let's do GR. Fundamental is the metric. Emergent is the
connection. Here in GU, it is the connection that's fundamental and the
metric that's emergent. In the next unit of GU, so this is sort of the first
unit of GU. Are there any quick questions happening to do with confusion or may I
proceed to the next unit? Okay. The next unit of GU is the unified field content.
What does it mean for our fields to become unified? There are, in fact, only at
this moment two fields that know about X. Theta, which is the connection that we've
just talked about, and a section, sigma, that takes us back so that we can
communicate back and forth between U and X. We now need field content that only
knows about U, which now has a metric depending on theta. A particular member
of the audience is a hedge fund manager who taught me that there is something of
a universal trade, and a universal trade has four components. You have to have a
view, you have to have a trade expression, you have to be able to calculate your
cost of carry, and you need a catalyst. Our view is going to be that somebody
doesn't understand what trade is possible, and we're going to make a trade that
looks like one of the worst trades of all time, and hopefully, if we have enough
conviction, we're going to have a catalyst to show that we actually got the
better part of the deal. What is that trade? What is it that we think has been
blocking progress? In GR, the Ramanian geometry, as we've said, we have the
projection operators, and we also have the Levy-Chavita connection. In the
auxiliary theory, we have freedom to choose our field content, and we have the
ability to get rid of much excess through the symmetries of the gauge group. We
are going to take particle theory, and we're going to make a bad trade, or what
appears to be a bad trade, which is that we are going to give away the freedom to
choose our field content, which is already extremely, as I think I said in the
abstract, baroque, with all of the different particle properties, and we're
going to lose the ability to use the gauge group because we're going to trade it
all. You have the family cow, and you have some magic beans. So it's now time to
trade the family cow for the magic beans and bring them home and see whether or
not we got the better of the deal. Okay. What is it that we get for the Levy-Chavita
connection? Well, not much. One thing we get is that normally the space of
connections is an affine space, not a vector space, but an affine space, almost a
vector space, a vector space up to a choice of origin. But with the Levy-Chavita
connection, rather than having an infinite plane with an ability to take
differences, but no real ability to have a group structure, you pick out one point
which then becomes the origin. That means that any connection A has a torsion
tensor A, which is equal to the connection minus the Levy-Chavita connection. So we
get a tensor that we don't usually have. Gauge potentials are not usually well
defined, they're only defined up to a choice of gauge. So that's one of the
things we get for our Levy-Chavita connection, but because the gauge group is
going to go missing, this has terrible properties with respect to the gauge
group. It almost looks like a representation, but in fact, if we let the
gauge group act, there's going to be an affine shift. Furthermore, as we've said
before, the ability to use projection operators together with the gauge group
is frustrated by virtue of the fact that these two things do not commute with
each other. So now the question is, how are we going to prove that we're
actually making a good trade? Okay. First thing we need to do is that we still
have the right to choose intrinsic field content. We have an intrinsic field
theory. So if you consider the structure bundle of the spinners, we built the
chimeric bundle, so we can define Dirac spinners on the chimeric bundle. If we're
in Euclidean signature, a 14-dimensional manifold has Dirac spinners of dimension
2 to the dimension of the space divided by 2. So 2 to the 14 over 2, 2 to the
7th is 128. So we have a map into a structure group of U128. At least in
Euclidean signature, we can get to mixed signatures later. From that, we can form
the associated bundle and sections of this bundle are either, depending upon how
you want to think about it, the gauge group H, or C, a space of sigma fields,
nonlinear. There's no reason that we can't choose this as field content. Again,
we're being led by the nose like a bull. If we want to make use of the symmetries of
the theory, we have to promote some symmetry to being part of the theory, and we
have to let it be subjected to dynamical laws. We're going to lose control over it.
But we're not dead yet, right? We're fighting for our life to make sure that
this trade has some hope. So potentially, by including symmetries as field content,
we will have some opportunity to make use of the projection. So for those of you
who... So when I was thinking about this, I used to be amazed by ships and bottles.
I must confess that I never figured out what the trick was for ships and bottles.
But once I saw it, I remembered thinking, that's really clever. So if you've never seen it,
you have a ship which is like a curvature tensor. And imagine that the mast is the
Ricci curvature. If you just try to shove it into the bottle, you're undoubtedly going
to snap the mast. So you imagine that you've transformed your gauge fields, you've kept
track of where the Ricci curvature was, you try to push it from one space like ad-valued
two forms into another space like ad-valued one forms where connections live. That's
not a good idea. Instead, what we do is the following. Imagine that you're carrying around
group theoretic information. What you do is you do a transformation based on the group
theory. So you lower the mast, you push it through the neck, having some string attached
to the mast, and then you undo the transformation on the other side. This is exactly what we're
going to hope is going to save us in this bad trade that we've made. Because we're going
to add field content that has the ability to lower the mast and bring the mast back
up, we're going to hope to have a theory which is going to create a commutative situation.
But then once we've had this idea, we start to get a little bolder. Let's think about
unified content. We know that we want a space of connections, A, for our field theory. But
we know because we have a Levy-Chevita connection that this is going to be equal on the nose
to ad-valued one forms as a vector space. The gauge group represents an ad-valued one
forms. So if we also have the gauge group, but we think of that instead as a space of
sigma fields, what if we take the semi-direct product at a group theoretic level between
the two and call this our group of interest? Well, by analogy, we've always had a problem
with the Poincare group being too intrinsically tied to rigid, flat Minkowski space. What
if we wanted to do quantum field theory in some situation, which was more amenable to
a curved space situation? It's possible that we should be basing it around something more
akin to the gauge group. And in this case, we're mimicking the construction where XC
here would be analogous to the Lorenz group, fixing a point in Minkowski space. And ad-valued
one forms would be analogous to the four momentums. We take in the semi-direct product to create
the inhomogeneous Lorenz group, otherwise known as the Poincare group, or rather it's
double cover to allow spin. So we're going to call this the inhomogeneous gauge group
or Iggy. And this is going to be a really interesting space because it has a couple of properties.
One is it has a very interesting subgroup. Now, of course, H includes into G by just
including onto the first factor. But in fact, there's a more interesting homomorphism brought
to you by the Levy-Civita connection. So this magic beam trade is going to start to enter
more and more into our consciousness. If I take an element H, and I map that in the
obvious way into the first factor, but I map it onto the Morro-Cartain form, I think that's
what I wish I remembered more of this stuff, into the second factor, it turns out that
this is actually a group homomorphism. And so we have a non-trivial embedding, which
is in some sense diagonal between the two factors. That subgroup we are going to refer
to as the tilted gauge group. And now our field content, at least in the Bosonic sector,
is going to be a group manifold, an infinite dimensional function space league group, but
a group nonetheless. And we can now look at G mod the tilted gauge group. And if we have
any interesting representation of H, we can form homogeneous vector bundles and work with
induced representations. And that's what the fermions are going to be. So the fermions
in our theories are going to be H modules. And the idea is that we're going to work
with vector bundles, curly E, of the form inhomogeneous gauge group, product it over
the tilted gauge group. And we're going to work with vector bundles, curly E, of the
form inhomogeneous gauge group. Now just as in the finite dimensional case, we have
a linear and a nonlinear component. Right? Because at a topological level, this is just
a Cartian product. So if we wish to take products of fermions, of spinorial fields,
we have a place to accept them. We can't figure out necessarily how to map them into
the nonlinear sector, but we don't want to. So just the way when we look at supersymmetry,
we can take products of the spin one-half fields and map them into the linear sector.
We can do the same thing here. So what we're talking about is something like a supersymmetric
extension of the inhomogeneous gauge group analogous to supersymmetric extensions of
the double cover of the inhomogeneous Lorentz or Poincare group. Further, because this construction
is at the level of groups, we've left a slot on the left-hand side on which to act. So
for example, if we want to take regular representations on the group, we can act by the group G on
the left-hand side because we're allowing the tilted gauge group to act on the right-hand
side. So it's perfectly built for representation theory. And if you think back to Wigner's classification
and the concept that a particle should correspond to an irreducible representation of the inhomogeneous
Lorentz group, we may be able to play the same games here up to the issue of infinite dimensionality.
So right now our field content is looking pretty good. It's looking unified in the sense
that it has an algebraic structure that is not usually enjoyed by field content, and
field content from different sectors can interact and know about each other, provided
we can drag something out of this with meaning. Now, what would it mean to be able to use
a gauge group in an intrinsic theory like this? We would be talking about something like
an action, let's say a first order action, and it would take the group G, let's say to
the real numbers, invariant, not under the full group, but under the tilted gauge subgroup.
And now the question is, do we have any such actions that are particularly nice, and could
we recognize them the way Einstein did by trying to write down not the action, and Hilbert
was the first one to write that down, but I always feel defensive because I think Einstein
and Grossman did so much more to begin the theory in that the Lagrangian that got written
down was really just an inevitability. So just humor me for this talk and let me call it
the Einstein-Grossman Lagrangian. Hilbert has certainly done fantastic things and has
a lot of credit elsewhere, and he did do it first. But here what we had was that Einstein
thought in terms of the differential of the action, not the action itself. So what we're
looking for is equations of motion where some field alpha, where alpha belongs to the one
forms on the group. Now in this section of GU, unified field content is only one part
of it, but what we really want is unified field content plus a tool kit. So what we
want is a tool kit. So we've restricted ourselves to one gauge group. This big unitary group
on the spinners using whatever sort of inner product naturally exists on the spinners,
and not spinners value in an auxiliary structure, but intrinsic spinners. The tool kit that
we have is that the adjoint bundle, the adjoint bundle, the adjoint bundle, the adjoint bundle
bundle, looks like the Clifford algebra at the level of vector spaces, which is just
looking like the exterior algebra on the chimeric bundle. That means that it's graded
by degrees. Chimeric bundle has dimension 14, so there's a 0 part, a 1 part, a 2 part
all the way up to 14. Plus we have forms in the manifold. So the question is, if I want
to look at omega i valued in the adjoint bundle, there's going to be some element phi i, which
is pure trace, right? Because it's the same representations appearing where in the usually
auxiliary directions as well as the geometric directions. So we get an entire suite of
invariants together with trivially associated invariants that come from using the hodge star
operator on the form. So I'm just going to call them for completeness. I'm not going
to deal with them. Now this is a tremendous amount of freedom that we've just gained.
Normally we keep losing freedom, but this is the first time we actually begin to see
that we have a lot of freedom, and we're going to actually retain some of this freedom to
the end of the talk. But the idea being that I can now start to define operators, which
correspond to the ship and the bottle problem. I can take field content, epsilon and pi, where
epsilon, where these are elements of the inhomogeneous gauge group. In other words,
epsilon is a gauge transformation, and pi is a gauge potential. And I can start to define
operators. I'm going to use, so in this case I'm going to define operators, and I'm going
to define operators. In this case, if I have a phi, which is one of these invariants, in
the form piece I can either take a contraction, or I can take a wedge product. In the Lie
algebra piece I can either take a Lie product, or because I'm looking at the unitary group
there's a second possibility, which is I can multiply everything by i and go from skew
her mission to her mission, and take a Jordan product using anti-commutators rather than
commutators. So I actually have a fair amount of freedom, and I'm going to use a magic bracket
notation, which in whatever situation I'm looking for knows what it wants to be. Does
it want to do contraction? Does it want to do wedge product, Lie product, Jordan product?
But the point is I now have a suite of ways of moving forms around. So for example, I
can define a shear of operator that takes i forms, and I can define a shear of operator
valued in the adjoint bundle. To much higher degree forms valued in the adjoint bundle.
So in this case, for example, it would take a two form to a d minus three plus two, or
a d minus one form. So curvature is an ad-valued two form. And if I had such a she-ab operator,
it would take ad-valued two forms to ad-valued d minus one forms, which is exactly the right
space to be an alpha coming from the derivative of an action. And this is exactly what Einstein
was doing. He took the curvature, which was large, and he bent it back, and he sheared
off the vial curvature, and they took that part, and he pushed it back along the space
of metrics to give us something which we nowadays call Ricci flow, an ability for the curvature
to direct us to the next structure. Well, we're doing the same thing here. We're taking
the curvature, and we can now push it back onto the space of connections.
So in this case, the idea is that we've actually got something for our magic beans. We have
an ability now to get equations of motion, which go along the group in some sense. It's
as if it was a gradient vector field, except we're using forms rather than vectors. But
now, what are the transformation properties? Well, because the curvature, so you have she-ab,
because the curvature of a connection, hit by a gauge transformation, is equal on the
nose to the adjoin action on the Lie algebra of the curvature, we know that if we have
two possible actions of conjugation under a bracket, and the bracket respects the action
of the gauge group, we know that this is going to be well preserved. In other words, we're
going to get a form that is gauge invariant relative to the tilted gauge group. And so
as a result, we now have the possibility for equations of motion, which are well defined,
even though they involve projection operators, because we've built the symmetries into the
theory and we're working on a group manifold to begin with. What about the torsion? Can
we rescue the torsion? Here again, we have good news. The torsion is problematic, but
if I look at a different field, which I'm going to call the augmented torsion, and I
