but I wanted to just give you an idea of where
this mysterious third generation, I think, comes from.
So if we review the three identities here,
we see that if we have a space v, thought of as a tangent
bundle, and then you have spinners built on the tangent bundle,
when you tensor product the tangent bundle
with its own spinners, it breaks up into two pieces.
One piece is the so-called cartin product,
which is sort of the sum of the highest weights,
and the other is a second copy of the spinners
gotten through the Clifford contraction.
So that's well known, but now what I think fewer people know,
many people know that the spinners have
a sort of an exponential property.
That is, the spinners of a direct sum
are the tensor product of the spinners
of the two summands of the direct sum.
So it's a very nice sort of version of an exponential.
It would take a sum and turn it into a product.
What happens when you're trying to think about a tangent space
in y as being broken up into a tangent space
along an immersed x together with its normal bundle?
So imagine that x and y are the tangent space
to x and a normal bundle.
So the Rarita-Schwinger piece, that is the spin 3 halves piece,
has a funny kind of an almost exponential property.
That is, the Rarita-Schwinger content
of a direct sum of vector spaces
is equal to the Rarita-Schwinger of the first tensor
producted with the ordinary spinners in the second,
direct sum with the ordinary spinners in the first,
tensor producted with the Rarita-Schwinger
content of the second summand.
But then there's this extra interesting term,
which is the spinners on the first summand, tensor
producted with the spinners on the second summand.
Now recalling that when I started my career,
we did not know that neutrinos were massive.
And I figured that they probably had to be massive
because I desperately wanted a 16 dimensional space
of internal quantum numbers, not 15,
because my ideas only work if the space of internal quantum
numbers is of dimension 2 to the n.
And one of my favorite equations at the time
was 15 equals 2 to the fourth, not literally true,
but almost true.
And thankfully, in the late 1990s,
the case for 16 particles in a generation
was strengthened when neutrinos were found to have mass.
But that remaining term in the southeast corner,
the spinners on x, tensor spinners on y,
looks like the term above it in line 2.15.
And that, in fact, is the third generation of matter,
in my opinion.
That is, it is not a true generation.
It is broken off and would unify very differently
if we were able to heat the universe
to the proper temperature.
So starting to sum up, this is not the full theory.
I'm just presenting this, in part,
to dip my toe back into the water.
It's a daunting task to try to address people
about something you've been thinking about for a long time
and have no idea whether it's even remotely correct.
This is the Einsteinian replacement.
And it must be pulled back to x.
That's the first thing.
The Yang-Mills Maxwell piece comes
from a direct square of the Einstein replacement.
That is, I don't believe that we're really
looking for a unifying equation.
I think we're looking for a unifying direct square,
Dirac famously took the square root of the Klein-Gordon
equation, and he gave us the Dirac equation.
And in fact, I believe that the Dirac equation
and the Einstein equation are to be augmented and fit
into the square root part of a Dirac square.
And I believe that the Yang-Mills content and Higgs
version of the Klein-Gordon equation
would go in the square part of the Dirac square.
So two of these equations unify differently than two others,
and the two pairs are unified in the content of a Dirac square.
The Dirac piece will be done separately elsewhere
when we get around to it and contains the Ririda-Schwinger
field content, which is fundamental and new.
There are only two generations in this model.
I think people have accepted that there are three,
but I don't believe that there are three.
I think that there are two, and that the third unifies
with other matter at higher energies.
The Cortic-Higgs piece comes from the Dirac
squaring of a quadratic.
Remember, there's an eddy tensor, which
is quadratic in the augmented torsion.
The metric does multiple duties here,
is it's the main field in this version of GU
with the strongest assumptions as field content that
is originally on X, where as most of the rest of the field
content is on Y, but it also acts as the observer pulling back
the full content of Y onto X to be interpreted
as if it came from X all along, generating
the illusion of internal quantum numbers.
And I should say that the Petit-Salam theory, which
is usually advertised as, I think, SU4 cross SU2 cross SU2,
is really much more naturally spin 6 cross spin 4
when the trace portion of the space of metrics
is put in with the proper sign if you're
trying to generate the sector that begins as X1, 3.
Remember, XD, where D equals 4, is the generic situation,
but you have all these different sectors.
I believe that these sectors probably exist,
if this model is correct, but we are
trapped in the 1, 3 sector.
So you have to figure out what the implications are
for pushing that indefinite signature up
into an indefinite signature on the Y manifold.
And there are signatures that make
it look like the Petit-Salam rather than directly
in the spin 10 SU5 line of thinking.
So we will attempt to present the full theory shortly.
And shortly, keep in mind, this took seven years
to just bring me to want to come back to this.
But it must be reassembled from decades of notes.
And that's part of the problem when you're working alone
and you're not really expecting to talk to anybody.
So I want to thank you for your patience and your time.
And I just want to read a bunch of names
of people who mattered to me.
And if I have done anything wrong,
this is no reflection on them.
Marcus DeSotoie, Peter Thiel, Isidore Singer, Raoul Bot,
Michael Grossberg, Adil Abdullali, Harry and Sophie Rubin,
Brett Weinstein and family, Heather Hying and Zach and Toby,
Peter Fried, Scott Axelrod, Nima Arkani-Hamed,
Louise Alvarez-Game, Edward Frankel,
Jorbar Natan, Shlomo Sternberg, David Kajdan,
Daniel Barquet, Karen and Les Weinstein,
Haynes Miller, Ralph Gomery, John Tate,
Sydney Coleman, Graham Siegel, Robert Herman,
and here in Esther Milani.
Errors and omissions, because I have too many people
to thank are all my own, as for the claims
that should reflect badly on no one else other than myself.
And most especially, I just want to say
that I've asked a tremendous amount from my family
to stick with me on this quixotic quest.
And I want to thank Pia Milani,
Nyla Weinstein and Zev Weinstein.
I love you all very much and thank you
for making this possible.
I do want to leave you with one thought.
I really think that we've gotten completely
bent out of shape about trying to formalize
and routinize science, and it doesn't work.
You cannot mandate science as social engineering.
You can't decide that science is always
in the zeitgeist and done by committee.
In fact, it is essential to understand
that science will not conform to what you want.
One of the things that I'm very proud of,
I think is quite true, is the saying
that great science has the scientific method
as its radio edit.
I don't think that great science
is actually done the way we say it's done.
And I think the directs 1963 Scientific American article
should be read by absolutely everyone.
Every time major theories have come out,
they've almost always been wrong,
but they're not wrong in an important way.
And I think that we have to fix the political economy
of people racing to correct theories
or point out that there's no agreement with the experiment.
We are killing many of our best ideas
by creating a terrible and combative environment
which already attempts to apportion credit
for work and more importantly,
risk undertaken by individuals.
And I just think that I want people to understand
that I've always wanted to share this,
but I detest the culture that I saw that cropped up
around what has now become known
as the cyber-witten equations.
When they were put forward, there was a period of time
where I watched people, as if it a feeding trough,
trying to stay up around the clock
to use a new machine tool that had been given to them
to claim credit.
And it profoundly pushed me away from the community.
We have to become more ethical
and we have to honor the people
who are trying to speak and act imaginatively.
Now, if this doesn't work, if it's silly,
I'll have egg on my face and I'll go on, I'll be fine.
But I'm very worried that maybe some of the best ideas
are between the ears of people without the confidence
in the Hutzpah and just the sort of almost psychotic drive
to push things across the finishing line.
We've got to be kinder and nicer and more decent
and stop stealing people's lives, their credit,
