And that would be, with the field content, 0 forms
tensored with spinors directs some 1 forms tensored with
spinors all up on y as the fermionic field content.
So that gets rid of the biggest problem, because the
internal symmetry group is what causes the failure, I think,
of supersymmetric particles to be seen in nature, which is
we have two different origin stories, which is a little
bit like Lilith and Genesis.
We can't easily say we have a unified theory if space time
and the SU3 cross SU2 cross U1 group that lives on space
time have different origins and cannot be related.
In this situation, we tie our hands and we have no choice
over the group content.
So just to fix bundle notation, we let h be the structure
group of a bundle, p sub h, over a base space b.
We use pi for the projection map.
We've reserved the variation in the pi orthography for the
field content, and we try to use right principle actions.
I'm terrible with left and right, but we do our best.
We use h here, not g, because we want to reserve g for the
inhomogeneous extension of h once we move to function spaces.
So with function spaces, we can take the bundle of groups
using the adjoint action of h on itself and form the
associated bundle and then move to c infinity sections to get
the so-called gauge group of automorphisms.
We have a space of connections, typically denoted by a, and
we're going to promote omega 1 tensored in the adjoint bundle
to notation of script n as the affine group, which acts
directly on the space of connections.
Now, the inhomogeneous gauge group is formed as the
semi-direct product of the gauge group of automorphisms
together with the affine group of translations of the space
of connections.
And you can see here is a version of an explicit group
multiplication rule.
I hope I got that one right.
And then we have an action of g that is the inhomogeneous
gauge group on the space of connections, because we have
two different ways to act on connections.
We can either act by gauge transformations or we can act
by affine translations.
So putting them together gives us something for the
inhomogeneous gauge group to do.
We then get a by connection.
In other words, because we have two different ways of pushing
a connection around, if we have a choice of a base
connection, we can push the base connection around in two
different ways according to the portion of it that is coming
from the gauge transformations, curly H, or the affine
translations coming from curly N.
We can call this map the by connection, which gives us two
separate connections for any point in the inhomogeneous
gauge group.
And we can notice that it can be viewed as a section of a
bundle over the base space to come when we find an
interesting embedding of the gauge group that is not the
standard one in the inhomogeneous gauge group.
So our summary diagram looks something like this.
Take a look at the tau sub A0.
We will find a homomorphism of the gauge group into its
inhomogeneous extension that isn't simply inclusion onto
the first factor.
And I'm realizing that I have the wrong pi.
That should just be a simple pi projecting down.
We have a map from the inhomogeneous gauge group via
the by connection to A cross A, connections cross
connections, and that behaves well according to the
difference operator delta that takes the difference of two
connections and gives an honest add-valued one form.
The infinitesimal action of a gauge transformation, or at
least an infinitesimal one, on a point inside of the group is
given by a somewhat almost familiar expression, which
should remind us of how the first term in the gauge
deformation complex for self-dual Yang-Mills actually
gets started.
And so by acting via this interesting embedding of the
inhomogeneous gauge group on the embedding of the gauge
group inside its inhomogeneous extension, but the
non-trivial one, we get something very close to the
original first step of the two-step
deformation complex.
Now, in sector three, there are payoffs to the magic beans
trade.
The big issue here is that we've foregone the privilege of
being able to choose and dial in our own field content, and
we've decided to remain restricted to anything we can
generate only from xd, in this case x4.
So we generated y14 from x4, and then we generated chimeric
tangent bundles on top of that.
We built spinners off of the chimeric tangent bundle, and we
have not made any other choices.
I think it's u128, u2 to the 7th.
That is our structure group, and it's fixed by the choice of
x4, not anything else.
So what do we get?
Well, as promised, there is a tilted homomorphism, which
takes the gauge group into its inhomogeneous extension.
It acts as inclusion on the first factor, but it uses the
Levy-Tvita connection to create a second more cartan form.
I hope I remember the terminology right.
It's been a long time.
The map is injective because it's injective under the first
factor, but it actually gives us a non-trivial embedding of
the gauge group in its inhomogeneous extension, which
makes the whole theory work.
We then get to Shiav operators.
A Shiav operator is a map from the group
across the ad-valued i-forms.
In this case, the particular Shiav operators we're
interested in is mapping i-forms to d minus 3 plus i-forms.
So for example, you would map a 2-form to d minus 3 plus i.
So if d, for example, were 14, and i were equal to 2, then
14 minus 3 is equal to 11, plus 2 is equal to 13.
So that would be an ad-valued 14 minus 1 form, which is
exactly the right place for something to form a current.
That is the differential of a Lagrangian on the space.
Now, the augmented torsion.
The torsion is a very strange object.
It's introduced right at the beginning of learning
differential geometry, but it really doesn't get used very
much.
One of the reasons it doesn't get used in gauge theory is
that it's not gauge invariant.
It has a gauge invariant piece to it, but then a piece that
spoils the gauge invariant.
But because we have two connections, one of the ideas
was to introduce two diseases, and then to take a difference.
And as long as the disease is the same in both,
the difference will not have the disease,
because both diseases are included, but with a minus sign
between them.
So the augmented torsion is relatively well-behaved,
relative to this particular slanted or tilted embedding
of the gauge group in its inhomogeneous extension, which
this is very nice, because now we actually
have a use for the torsion.
We have an understanding of why it may never have figured,
particularly into geometry, is that you need two connections,
rather than one, to see the advantages of torsion at all.
So here's an example of one ship and a bottle operator.
I think this would be sort of analogous, if I'm not mistaken,
to trying to take the Ricci curvature from the entire Riemann
curvature.
But if you think about what Einstein did,
Einstein had to go further and reduce the Ricci curvature
to the scalar curvature, and then sort of dial
the components of the traceless Ricci and the scalar curvature
to get the right proportions.
So there are many Schiav operators,
and you have to be very careful about which one you want.
And once you know exactly what it is you're trying to hit,
you can choose the Schiav operator to be bespoke
and get the contractions that you need.
Now, I've made you guys sit through a lot,
so I wanted to give you sort of humorously
a feeling of positivity for the exhaustion.
So the years of anxious searching in the dark,
with their intense longing, their intense alternations
of confidence and exhaustion, and the final emergence
into the light, only those who have experienced it
can understand it.
I just always thought this was the most
sensitive and beautiful quote.
And I wish it were one of his better-known quotes,
but I think it's so singular that it's hard to feel
what it was that he was talking about,
because, in fact, he sort of explains this in the last line.
So given that you've been on a long journey,
here is something of what geometric unity equations
might look like.
So in the first place, you have the swerved curvature,
the Schiav applied to the curvature tensor.
That, in general, does not work out to be exact.
So you can't have it as the differential of a Lagrangian.
And in fact, we talk about swirls, swerves, twirls, eddies.
There has to be a quadratic eddy tensor
that I occasionally forget when I pull this thing out
of mothballs.
And the two of those together make up
what I call the total swervature.
And on the other side of the equation,
you have the displaced torsion, which
I've called the dysplasion.
And to get rid of the pesky sort of minus sign
and hodge star operator, this would
be the replacement for the Einstein equation, not on x,
where we would perceive it, but on y,
before being pulled back onto the manifold x.
So a condensation of that would be very simple.
In simplest terms, we would be saying
that the swervature is equal to the dysplasion,
at least in this sector, of the four main equations
of theoretical physics.
This would be the replacement for the Einstein equations,
again, on y, before being pulled back to x.
Next is the sketch of the fermionic field content.
I'm not sure whether that should have been sector 4,
sector 3, but it's going to be very brief.
I showed some pictures during the lecture,
and I'm not going to go back through them,
