development and that his theory was put in a situation in which it was not
able to carry the day because, in fact, there was no record of the fact that a
prediction had been made. Now, I disagreed with Agnes on that program
vociferously. But what I found was that it was very telling. In general, our
academic population has given up on the previous and quaint idea of decency,
proprietary, truth, fairness, because there simply isn't the resource for
everyone. Now, I believe that current science is not necessarily unsalvageable,
but it will be unsalvageable if we don't get the very people that I rail against
far more money. And I know that's very confusing. But my belief is that the
inadequate resources that we have put aside are very similar to the inadequate
masks that we have put aside for our doctors. We have asked some of the
world's most gifted and smartest people to devote their lives to the study of
science and technology. And we have inadequately prepared them. We've put
their lives and their families' lives under incredible pressures. And what I
wish to do is to, in fact, point to the very people who I have been most angry
at for years and say that part of the problem is that we need to take a hard
look at how we've invested in science and technology and give the very people
that I'm most angry at more money. I will explain more about this later, but I
do want to give you an introduction to this episode. What I will be doing is
to screen a very unusual and somewhat awkward lecture at the University of
Oxford. Now, why is it so awkward? Well, first of all, I had left standard
research perhaps 20 years earlier, almost. Further, I'm not a physicist. And I
have only taken one or two courses in the physics major sequence. I think I've
taken one semester of mechanics. And perhaps I took an advanced general
relativity course in college. But in general, no one goes into a theoretical
physics department and attempts to lecture physics physicists on physics.
And why is that? Well, because physics is incredibly demanding. And this is
almost certainly the world's most interesting and most accomplished
intellectual community. These are guys who don't miss a trick. There are so
many things to know and it is such a difficult field that it is effectively
almost impossible to contribute from outside. Chemists don't do it and once
in a blue moon, mathematicians will attempt to talk about actual real
physics. So one thing that you're seeing is a very unusual circumstance where
somebody is trying to figure out how to give their first lecture in a physics
department. And it concerns the possibility of a theory which attempts to
solve the problem of how does a fire light itself. Another thing that you'll
see is that it's relatively difficult to read my handwriting. I'm not going to
make any bones about it. I've been very vocal about having learning differences,
dysgraphia, dyslexia, all sorts of different issues. Symbols come extremely
difficult to me. I don't want to spend this time making excuses. What I do want
to say is the following. I will be attempting to record a short PowerPoint
presentation for after the lecture to say at least some of what some of the
constructions are more clearly. This is not meant to be the actual presentation
of the theory. What this is is an introduction, a down payment and above
all a historical account of what happened seven years ago at the University
of Oxford when I tried to present these ideas. I've talked before about the
twin nuclei problem and our need to get off of this planet. And if we have a
hope of getting off of this planet, it really comes from fundamental physics.
You see 100 years ago or perhaps 105 when Albert Einstein gave us general
relativity. He effectively consigned us for life to the solar system. Why is
that? Well, his model, his geometric model of space and time, effectively
creates a speed limit known as C or the speed of light. Now, there are three
rocks that are at least interesting for habitation by humans, although two of
them are marginal, the moon and Mars. One of them, of course, is unbelievable,
the earth. But I doubt that we're going to be able to steward the earth through
our new godlike powers, which I've called the twin nuclei problem of
cell and atom. We've unlocked the power of both. And I don't think we have the
wisdom to stay all in one place. So the question that I had was, if there is
any ability to escape to the cosmos that we can see in the night sky, where
would it come from? We are almost positive that Albert Einstein's theory of
relativity is in some weird way incomplete. The Schwarzschild singularities
which give us black holes and the initial singularities of the Robertson
Walker Friedman universe, which are associated with the Big Bang, are some
clue that there is some subtle flaw in Einstein's theory. So how to go beyond
Einstein? I mean, what Einstein did to Newton was to recover Newton as a
special case of a more general theory that is more flexible. And in fact, this
is the same problem that we have. Because Albert Einstein's theory is so
fundamental, we effectively begin every theoretical physics seminar with a
statement about spacetime. In other words, Albert Einstein is locked in at the
ground floor. So if we can't get below the ground floor to the foundations, it's
very difficult to make progress. This is one of the things that is making it
almost impossible for us to go beyond the initial revolutions of the 20th
century. Do I know that this new theory, if it works, will allow us to escape? I do
not. There's no one who can say that. And I don't think I have the skills to
develop the physical consequences of the theory, even if the theory turns out to
be mostly right. What I will say is that I think that the theory is the first of
its kind that I've seen. I believe that in part what you will see is that at a
minimum, it is like fool's gold. It appears to explain why we think we see
three generations. But it also says that perhaps they aren't really three
generations of matter. Perhaps there are only two, even though physicists tell us
that there are at least three or perhaps more. I believe that physics tells us
that the universe is chiral, that is left-right asymmetric. But the theory is
itself not chiral. Instead, it chooses to present a different idea, which is that
perhaps chirality is emergent, much the way our hands are individually left-right
asymmetric, as our pinky is not a reflection of our thumb. But the thumb on
each hand is a pairing to the other one, as is the pinky. Now, what does that
mean? It means that if perhaps there is matter and there is force that is
decoupled from our ordinary world, that that matter might restore the parity or
the chirality, rather would break the chirality, and restore parity between
these two halves, the matter we see and the matter that is missing. There are a
good number of other things that happen in the theory. It replaces space-time with
what I've termed an observer's. Now, an observer's is an unusual gadget in that
it's thought of as two separate places where physics takes place, connected by
a map. That means effectively that we are in something like a stadium where there
are stands and there is a pitch, and the playing field that we think we see may
not, in fact, be where most of the action is taking place. In fact, not all of the
fields live on the same space. So when we see waves and particles dancing around,
they may have separate origins in each of the two components of the
observer's. What I hope to do after this is to gracefully and gradually develop
the theory under my leadership. Now, why do I say that? There is a belief in
physics and in most fields that the field should behave in a communal fashion,
and that people should put forward their ideas and other people should joyously
build upon them, and that the community should be allowed to name the various
accomplishments for whoever they say accomplished those things. There's not
a way in hell that I'm letting that happen. My experience with this community
is that it simply can't be trusted to behave equitably given the fact that it
is so resource-starved and constrained. People simply do not have the freedom to
be generous, kind, and accurate as to who did what. Furthermore, there is an
incredible premium on cherry topping. That is, who finished something off is
considered bizarrely much more important than who found something to begin with.
Imagine you located an island and you named the island after the first person
who could plant the flag on the top of the highest peak. This is patently offensive
and ridiculous. There's a story years ago about how Hilbert almost scooped
Einstein by giving the Hilbert action from which Einstein's equations could be
recovered. Really? Not a chance. So, if Hilbert came up with the Hilbert action
and recovered Einstein's equations, so what? I mean, the real theory actually
takes place in Einstein and Grossman before Albert Einstein even works out a
lot of the flaws in the original theory. It's about the ideas. It's not about the
formulas and it's not about racing to the final form. Now, I know that the
community won't agree with that but think about this. What I'm doing is taking an
incredible risk. I'm addressing you here on April Fool's Day and I'm saying that
if there is a fool, it is certainly me because I have sat on this theory for
almost 40 years. Now, I've never known. Is it true? Is it false? It's impossible to
tell when you're only talking to yourself. But in this situation, what I've done
is I've taken a tremendous amount of risk and now I'm trying to share it with
you. Hopefully, I know that, well, Newton did his greatest work when he was
sheltering from a great plague in England and I would like to
think that perhaps, whether or not this is correct, simply the act of somebody
trying earnestly to share hope and some path forward would be uplifting. Now,
under the worst circumstances, if this doesn't work, what do I think? This is a
question I'm asked frequently. And there are two things that I'll say. Many years
ago, around 1987, I put forward some equations that I thought might become my
thesis at the Harvard Department of Mathematics and they were disallowed for
a variety of reasons. Those equations were later discovered in, I believe, 1994
and I sat in a lecture in which I saw these equations go up on a board at the
very end at MIT. And I looked at those equations and I said, huh, those are the
exact equations I was told could never work. Why is the leading physicist in the
world placing them on the board and saying that these are the equations from
which all of something called Donaldson theory can be derived? What I'm giving you,
at least at a minimum, had the ability years earlier to provide those equations
from a different source. There's something called cyber-witten theory, which I
have no claim on. But the actual equations that are called the cyber-witten
equations came originally as an outgrowth from investigations of this
theory. So at a bare minimum, the cyber-witten revolution should have happened
at Harvard rather than Princeton and it should have been recognized that this
theory was capable of at least at a minimum giving birth to that as a side
project. The other thing that I think is incredibly important is that we've
never seen how a universe that looks like ours could possibly emerge from almost
no assumptions whatsoever. And I believe that even if this theory were to turn out
to be wrong, which I don't think is likely, I believe that it would give us
something to go on. We would at least have a first candidate of how a hopeful
theory of everything would look and how it would go wrong. So under any
circumstance, I think that I'm going to be fine if the theory doesn't work out.
I will have at least taken my shot on goal. And I think that that's probably
more than almost anyone can ask from a life to attempt to make contact with the
deepest question that we've ever had, which is what is this place and what
brought it into being? Lastly, I want to just talk about a personal aspect of
this, which is what does it mean to come to an end? Whether or not this theory in
fact does what I claim, I think it does. I don't know. But I do know that sooner or
later in the era of intercontinental land exploration, someone found the last
land mass. And that must have been a very strange moment when there was nothing
left to do. I think whether or not this theory in fact accomplishes that is one
question. But we all have to plan for what it is that we think will happen when
man at last learns his own source code. In fact, this was the last edge question
that I answered for John Brockman, which is, does something unprecedented happen
when man at last learns his own source code? I don't know the answer to this,
but I want to return to the same spirit that I started this one. I was 18 or 19,
which is that of joyous investigation of brave, open-hearted
undertakings. And I also want to bring back a different style of scientific
investigation. There's been far too much communalism. In fact, there is a belief
that there are no lone researchers and that everything is produced by a
community. And pardon my French, but this is absolute horseshit. I have been so
long alone with these principles, equations and ideas that I don't even
know what my adult life will look like once I discord them. And I begin to talk
about them with the community at large. I've talked to many theoretical
physicists who've taken some interest in them, but I've never put out enough to
absolutely ensure that people are seeing what it is that I'm seeing. So whether
or not the April Fool's joke is on me, I cannot tell you, but I can promise you
that I'm not trying to play one on you. What I hope to show you is a lecture
that was the first of three versions of this lecture that were delivered in
Oxford over the course of a week. And one of the things that has held me back
is that I have a great number of people who I have to thank for effectively
being my underground railroad when my career got into serious trouble to make
sure, who made sure that I always had an opportunity to fight another day. And
some of the most important of those people, one of whom occurs on this
video, is Marcus DeSotois. And Marcus, I just wanted to say thank you for your
bravery, your courage, your friendship, and your encouragement. I know I've been
absolutely impossible to you. I've made you wait for this and I just want to say
how much I love you. I also want to thank Isidore Singer for effectively saving
me from not getting a PhD by, I think, putting pressure on the Harvard
Department. And for coming to my assistance, making sure that I got a
postdoc at MIT, despite not having any publications at all. I'd like to thank
Raoul Bot, who's no longer with us, who I should have invited to my wedding. I was
very angry at him, but I didn't realize that he was saving me in a very
difficult situation against a department that probably just wanted to see me gone.
I'd like to thank Peter Thiel, one of my closest friends, who's like a brother to
me, for allowing me these seven years since this lecture to lick my wounds, to
get strong, to have a 401k, to buy a house, and to begin coming back to regular
society after a very difficult and strained career. I'd like to thank Adil
Abdullali and Michael Grossberg, the two greatest best friends from college that
