I could have. I'd like to thank my grandfather, Harry Rubin, who believed
in things that couldn't possibly be true and made some of them happen. I'd like
to thank my parents, Karen and Les Weinstein, for all the good things that
they did. I'd like to thank my brother Bret Weinstein and his family, Heather
and the kids, for sticking by me. And I'd like to thank my in-laws in Bombay,
India. I hope you guys are well. And lastly, I would very much like to thank my
wife and my two kids for putting up with a lot of lost weekends, a lot of lost
vacations, and believing that just maybe there was something to this and
sticking by me all these years. So I hope everybody really enjoys this. It may
not be comprehensible. And after this video finishes, I'll do a short
presentation of some of the constructions that took place. Not all of the
equations and things, which I think some of them were sort of botched on the
board because I became disoriented the night before and rearranged things in a
way that probably wasn't optimal. But I'll attempt to clarify these things
going forward and to begin to present the theory as I see whether or not I can
bring myself to once again work on it somewhat close to full-time as a 54-
year-old father of two. So sit back, relax, and coming up next is the first of my
three lectures at Oxford University on Geometric Unity. Be well.
Well, welcome to this special Simone lecture. My name is Mark Stasotoy. I'm a
professor of mathematics here and the Simone Professor for the Public
Understanding of Science. And Charles Simone prepared a manifesto when he
endowed this chair to guide the holder of the professorship in their mission.
And I'd like to read one part of that manifesto to you. It said,
scientific speculation when so labelled and when the concept of speculation and
its place in the scientific method has been made clear to the audience can be
very exciting. It is a very effective communication tool and it is by no
means discouraged. And it is in the spirit of this part of my mission as a
Simone Professor that I would like to introduce today's Simone special
lecture. I first met Eric Weinstein when we were both postdocs at the Hebrew
University just over 20 years ago. And I had the feeling then that he was
working on something big. But it wasn't until two years ago that Eric met me in
a bar in New York and we began he began to explain the mathematics that he'd
been working on in private for the last 20 years. As he took me through the
equations he had been formulating, I began to see emerging before my eyes
potential answers to many of the major problems in physics. It was an
extremely exciting, daring proposal and also mathematically so natural that it
started to work its magic on me. Over the last two years I have had the
privilege of being taken through the twists and turns of Eric's ideas.
After our postdocs in Israel, while I went the academic route getting my
professorship here in Oxford, Eric went a more independent route working in
economics, government and finance. So he comes here today as something of an
insider and an outsider. A difficult place from which to propose bold ideas.
But having spent time seeing how powerful these ideas appear to be, I felt
that it was time that Eric shared his ideas more widely. As I believe his
perspective could give the scientific community a new story to explain some of
the big questions on the scientific books. I'm therefore very happy to provide
a platform here in Oxford for Eric to share his ideas on a new theory he
calls geometric unity. The lecture will be approximately 70 minutes after which
we will have a period to ask questions. Eric.
So it's a great pleasure to be here in Oxford. For those of you who are not
aware, it is possible that no other university in the world has kept so
tightly and kept the faith for so long with Einstein's great vision of a final
theory for physics as a theory of pure geometry. A sort of elegance and
simplicity of the highest order. And the names that are associated with Oxford
that weigh heavy on me are Atia, Penrose, Siegel, Woodhouse, Hitchin. It's a very
long list of people who, even when fashion did not hold those ideas in
favor, always kept the faith that there was much to be learned from the
geometric perspective on physics. Of course, unified field theory in some
sense acquired a stigma with Einstein's failure to find it. And the sense that
even someone like Einstein being tempted by the siren song of geometry
might lose their footing and go astray. And in the years since, we've had a
replacement theory which is that what is really calling our generations is the
quest to quantize general relativity and gravity. And I'd like to go back to
the sort of earlier perspective that there is no evidence to date, in my
mind, that we are being called to quantize general relativity directly. In
fact, there's been more effort spent on that quest without very tangible
results than Einstein spent as one man searching for years for unified field
theory. So we have to, in some sense, begin to undo some of what we think we
know in order to truly reconsider and allow me to put some of these ideas
before you today. Marcus asked me to begin presenting these ideas here. And
hopefully this is a first opportunity, but if the ideas are not good, then
lighting on the aisles will lead you to safety and your exits may be behind you.
But in the event of a good flight, hopefully this will begin a conversation
rather than end one. I feel in some sense that I'm presenting the works of
another man, a younger man, someone who came of age right in the middle of the
great string theory boom with the anomaly cancellation in 1984. And I
look at this work and I see a young person struggling with the idea, why
can't I see that string theory is going to answer all of these questions over
the next 10 years, as we were told at the time. And making a very dangerous
decision, which was, I think I'm not going to follow that particular path and
I'm going to follow another. And it's not clear where this path is going to
lead us, but we're going to explore it today and see as best we can. So in some
sense, I've been able to polish some of that young man's work, but I'm also
struggling to reconstruct it because as someone spending full time on that
theory, he knew a lot of things that I no longer know. So with that as a
beginning, I'm just going to say one disclaimer, which is that this is not a
usual talk. And whatever contract a speaker usually has with the audience,
right now we're going to break that contract. This is a talk about ideas.
Some of these ideas are bold, some of them may offend some people because
there's a sense that you don't have a right to be considering those ideas. But
I go back to the admonition of Jim Watson that said, if you're going to try to
make progress, big progress, you are by definition unqualified to be doing
whatever it is that you're doing. So in that spirit, let us begin. What is
physics to physicists today? How do they see it different from the way in which
we might imagine the layperson sees physics? Ed Whitten was asked this
question in a talk he gave on physics and geometry many years ago, and he
pointed us to three fundamental insights, which were his big three
insights in physics. And they correspond to the three great equations. So the
first one is that somehow physics takes place in an arena. And that arena is a
manifold X together with some kind of semi-Romanian metric structure. Something
that allows us to take length and angle so that we can perform measurements at
every point in this spacetime or higher dimensional structure, leaving us a
little bit of headroom. The equation most associated with this is the Einstein
field equation. And, of course, I've run into the margin. So it says,
that a piece of the Riemann curvature tensor, the Ricci tensor, minus an even
smaller piece, the scalar curvature multiplied by the metric, is equal, or
plus the cosmological constant, is equal to some amount of matter and energy, the
stress energy tensor. So it's intrinsically a curvature equation. The
second fundamental insight, I'm going to begin to start drawing pictures here as
well. So if this is the spacetime manifold, the arena, the second one concerns
symmetry groups, which cannot necessarily be deduced from any structure inside of
the arena. They are additional data that come to us out of the blue without
explanation. And these symmetries form a non-Abelian group, which is currently
SU3 color cross SU2 weak isospin cross U1 weak hypercharge, which breaks down to
SU3 cross U1, where the broken U1 is the electromagnetic symmetry. This equation
is also a curvature equation, the corresponding equation, and it says that
this time the curvature of an auxiliary structure known as a gauge potential, when
differentiated in a particular way, is equal, again, to the amount of stuff in
the system that is not directly involved in the left-hand side of the equation. So
it has many similarities to the above equation. Both involve curvature, one
involves a projection or a series of projections, the other involves a
differential operator. The third point surrounds the matter in the system. And
here we have a Dirac equation, again coupled to a connection. But one of the
great insights is that the reason for the lightness of matter in the natural mass
scale of physics has to do with the fact that this psi really should have two
components, and the differential operator should map to one component on the
other side of the equation, but the mass operator should map to another. And so if
one of the components is missing, if the equation is intrinsically lopsided,
chiral, asymmetric, then the mass term and the differential term have
difficulty interacting, which is sort of overcompensating for the mass scale of
the universe, so you get to a point where you actually have to define a
massless equation, but then just like overshooting a putt, it's easier to knock
it back by putting in a Higgs field in order to generate an as-if fundamental
mass through the Yukawa couplings.
So matter is asymmetric, and therefore light.
And then interestingly, he went on to say one more thing. He said, of course, these
three central observations must be supplemented with the idea that this all
takes place, treated in quantum mechanical fashion or quantum field
theoretic. So it's a bit of an aftermarket modification rather than, in his
opinion at the time, one of the core insights. I actually think that that's in
some sense about right. Now, one of my differences with the community in
some sense is that I question whether the quantum isn't in good enough shape,
that we don't know whether we have a serious quantum mechanical problem or not.
We know that we have a quantum mechanical problem, a quantum field
theoretic problem, relative to the current formulations of these theories, but we
know that in some other cases, the quantum becomes incredibly natural,
sometimes sort of almost magically natural. And we don't know whether the
true theories that we will need to be generalizing, in some sense, have
beautiful quantum mechanical treatments, whereas the effective theories that we're
dealing with now may not survive the quantization. So what I want to do is I
want to imagine a different sort of incompatibility. So let's take our great
three theories and just visually treat them as the vertices of a triangle. So I'm
going to put general relativity in Einstein's formulation, and I'm going to
put the, I probably won't write this again, Yang-Mills, Maxwell, Anderson-Higgs
theory over here, and I'm going to write the Dirac theory. What I want to explore is
the incompatibility is not at the quantum level, but the geometric input. All three
of these are geometric theories. And the question is, what are the
incompatibilities or incompatibilities at the level of geometry before the
theory is treated quantum mechanically? Well, in the case of Einstein's general
relativity, we can rewrite the Einstein theory by saying that there's a projection
map due to Einstein of a curvature tensor, where I'm going to write that
curvature tensor as I would in the Yang-Mills theory. That should be an LC for
Levy-Chavita. So the Einstein projection of the curvature tensor of the Levy-Chavita
connection of the metric on this side, and on this side, I'm going to write down
this differential operator, the adjoint of the exterior derivative coupled to a
connection. And you begin to see that we're missing an opportunity potentially.
What if the FAs were the same in both contexts? Then you're applying two
separate operators, one zero-eth order and destructive in the sense that it
doesn't see the entire curvature tensor. The other inclusive, but a first order.
And so the question is, is there any opportunity to do anything that combines
these two? But the problem is, is that the hallmark of the Yang-Mills theory is
the freedom to choose the data, the internal quantum numbers that give all
the particles their personalities beyond the mass and the spin.
In addition to all of that freedom is some means of taking away some of the
redundancy that comes with that freedom, which is the action of the gauge group.
Now we can allow the gauge group of symmetries to act on both sides of the
equation. But the key problem is that if I act on connections on the right and then
take the Einstein projection, this is not equal to first taking the projection
and then conjugating with the gauge action. So the problem is, is that the projection
is based on the fact that you have a relationship between the intrinsic
geometry, if this is an ad-valued two-form, the two-form portion of this, and the
adjoint portion of this are both associated to the structure group of the
tangent bundle. But the gauge rotation is only acting on one of the two factors,
yet the projection is making use of both of them. So there is a fundamental
incompatibility in the claim that Einstein's theory is a gauge theory
relies more on analogy than on an exact mapping between the two theories. What
about the incompatibilities between the Einstein theory of general relativity and
the Dirac theory of matter? I was very struck that if we're going to try to
quantize gravity and we associate gravity with the spin-to-field g mu nu,
we actually have a pretty serious problem, which is if you think about spinors,
electrons, quarks, as being waves in a medium, and you think about photons as
being waves in a different medium, photons medium does not depend on the
existence of a metric. One forms are defined whether or not a metric is
present. It's spinors or not. So if we are going to take the spin-to g mu nu
field to be quantum mechanical, if it blinks out and does whatever the quantum
does between observations, in the case of the photon, it's saying that the waves
may blink out, but the ocean need not blink out. In the case of the Dirac
theory, it is the ocean, the medium in which the waves live that becomes
uncertain itself. So even if you're comfortable with the quantum, to me,
this becomes a bridge too far. So the question is, how do we liberate the
