define it to be the regular torsion, which would be pi, minus this expression, this turns
out to be beautifully invariant again. So neither this term nor this term is gauge
invariant, but they fail to be gauge invariant in exactly the same way. So an important principle
of life, which I took too long to realize, is that if you have one disease, you're in
real trouble. But if you have two diseases, you always have the possibility of having
one disease kill the other disease. This is true in renormalization theory, it's true
in black-scholes theory, it's true all over the place. So what we have here is we've got
more diseases into the theory, but an even number of diseases allow us to have no disease
at all. So now we have two great tensors. We've got one tensor coming from the curvature
and the Shiav operator, we have another tensor coming from the torsion and it's augmentation.
We're doing okay.
We're not doing physics yet, we're just building tools. We've built ourselves a little bit
of freedom, we have some reprieves, we've still got some very big debts to pay back for this
magic beans trade. We're in the wrong dimension, we don't have good field content, we're stuck
on this one spinner, we've built ourselves some projection operators, we've picked up
some symmetric non-linear sigma field. What can we write down in terms of equations of
motion? Let's start with Einstein's concept. If we do Shiav of the curvature tensor of
a gauge potential hit with an operator defined by the epsilon sigma field, it's going to
be 0, plus the star operator acting on the augmented torsion of the pair. This contains
all of the information when pi is 0 in Einstein's tensor. In other words, there is a spinorial
analog of the vial curvature, a spinorial analog of the traceless Ricci curvature and
a spinorial analog of the scalar curvature. This operator should shear off the analog
of the vial curvature just the way Einstein's projection shears off the vial curvature when
you're looking at the tangent bundle. This term, which is now gauge invariant, may be
considered as containing a piece that looks like lambda times g mu nu, or a cosmological
constant. This piece here can be made to contain a piece that looks like Einstein's tensor,
and so this looks very much like the vacuum field equation. We have to add in something
else. I'm going to be a little bit vague because I'm still giving myself some freedom as we
write this up. But we're going to define whatever tensor we need for these terms here. This is
gauge invariant, this is gauge invariant, and this is gauge invariant with respect to
the tilted gauge group. These two tensors together should be exact, and this tensor on
its own should be exact. We're going to call the exact tensor the swerveture. So the particular
Chiav operator we call the swerve, so it's swerve curvature plus the adjustment needed
for exactness, and another gauge invariant term which is not usually gauge invariant.
So that's pretty cool. If that works, we've now taken the Einstein equation, and we've
put it not on the space of metrics, but we've put a generalization and an analog on the
space of gauge potentials much more amenable to quantization with much more algebraic structure
and symmetry in the form of the inhomogeneous gauge group and its homogeneous vector bundles,
some of which may be super symmetric. Now the question is, we've integrated so tightly
with the matter field, we have to ask ourselves the question, can we see unification here?
Let's define matter content in the form of omega zero tensored in the spinners, which
is a fancy way of saying spinners. Together with a copy of the one forms tensored in the
spinners. And let me come up with two other copies of the same data.
So I'll make a d minus one just by duality, so imagine that there's a hodge star operator.
And when I was a little kid, I had the soma cube. I don't know if you ever played with
one of these things, they're fantastic. And I later found out that this guy who invented
the soma cube, which you had to put together pieces, there was one piece that looked like
this object. And he was like this amazing guy in the resistance during World War II.
So I would like to name this the somatic complex, after I guess his name was Piet Hein, I think.
So this complex, I'm going to choose to start filling in some operators. The exterior derivative
coupled to a connection, but in the case of spinners, we're going to put a slash through
and let's make this the identity. We'd now like to come up with a second operator here.
And this second operator here should have the property that the complex should be exact
and the obstruction to it being a true complex, to nil potency, should be exactly the generalization
of the Einstein equations, thus unifying the spinorial matter with the nil potency.
The intrinsic replacement for the curvature equations.
Well, we know that DA, composed with itself, is going to be the curvature. And we know
that we want that to be hit by a shiav operator. And if shiav is a derivation, you can start
to see that that's going to be curvature, so you want something like fA followed by
shiav over here to cancel. Then you think, okay, well how am I going to get at getting
this augmented torsion? And then you realize that the information in the inhomogeneous
gauge group, you actually have information not for one connection, but for two connections.
So in one case, I can do plus star to pick up the A sub pi, but I'm also going to have
a derivative operator if I just do a star operation. So I need another derivative operator
to kill it off here. So I'm going to take minus the derivative with respect to the connection
H inverse DA naught H, which defines the connection one form as well as having the same derivative
coming from the Levy-Civita connection on U. So in other words, I have two derivative
operators here. I have two ad-valued one forms. The difference between them is going to be
of zero with order, and it's going to be precisely the augmented torsion. That's the same game
I'm going to repeat here. So I'm going to do the same thing here. I'm going to define
a bunch of terms where in the numerator I'm going to pick up the pi as well as the derivative
in the denominator because I have no derivative here. I'm going to pick up this H inverse
DA naught H. I'm going to do that again on the other side. There are going to be plus
and minus signs, but it's a magic bracket that knows whether or not it should be a plus
sign or a minus sign. I apologize for that, but I'm not able to keep that straight. And
then there's going to be one extra term where all these T's have the epsilon and pi. So
some crazy series of differential operators on the northern route. So if you take the
high road or you take the low road, when you take the composition of the two, the differential
operators fall out, and you're left with an obstruction term that looks like the Einstein
field equation. That's pretty good, if true. Can you go farther? Well, look at how close
this field content is to the picture from deformation theory that we learned about in low-dimensions.
The low-dimensional world works by saying that similar to what we learned in the previous
lecture, we're going to look at what we learned in the previous lecture. We're going to look
at what we learned in the previous lecture and what we learned in the previous lecture.
usually in the curvature.
And when you linearize that, if you're
in low enough dimensions, you have omega 0, omega 1,
sometimes omega 0 again, and then something
that comes from omega 2.
And if you can get that sequence to terminate
by looking at something like a half-signature theorem
or a bent-back Diracm complex in the case of dimension 3,
you have a T-singer theory.
And remember, we need some way to get out
of infinite-dimensional trouble.
You have to have someone to call when things go wrong
overseas, and you have to be able to get your way home.
And in some sense, we call on a T-singer and say,
we're in some infinite-dimensional space.
Can't you cut out some finite-dimensional problem
that we can solve even though we start getting ourselves
into serious trouble?
And so we're going to do the same thing down here.
We're going to have omega 0 add, omega 1 add, direct sum,
omega 0 add, omega d minus 1 add.
And it's almost the same operators.
And this is now not just a great guess.
It's actually the information for the deformation theory
of the linearized replacement of the Einstein field equations.
So this is computing the Zyrowski tangent space
just as if you were doing self-dual theory
or churn-Simon's theory.
You've got two somatic complexes, right?
One of them is Bose.
One of them is Fermi.
The obstruction to both of them is a common generalization
of the Einstein field equations.
What's more is if you start to think about this,
this is some version of Hodg's theory with funky operators.
So you can ask yourself, well, what are the harmonic forms
in a fractional spin context?
Well, they're different depending upon whether you
take the degree 0 piece together with the degree 2 piece
or you take the degree 1 piece.
Let's just take the degree 1 piece.
You get some kind of equation.
So I'm going to decide that I have a zeta field, which
is an omega 1 tensor spinors.
And a field nu, which always strikes me as a Yiddish field,
nu is omega 0 tensor S. What equation would they solve
if we were doing Hodg's theory relative to this complex?
The equation would look something like this.
There'd be one equation that was very simple.
And then there'd be one equation that
would be really hard to guess.
Gosh, I don't know how I'm going to screw this up.
All these boards, I still feel like I'm
managing to run out of room.
OK.
Now, if you have something like that,
that would be a hell of a Dirac equation.
You've got differential operators over here.
You've got differential operators.
I guess I didn't write them in.
But you would have two differential operators over
here, and you'd have this differential operator coming
from this more cartain form.
So I apologize on being a little loose here.
But the idea is you have two of these terms of 0th order,
three of these terms would be first order.
And on this side, one term would be first order.
And that's not there.
That was a mistake.
Oh, no, sorry.
That was a mistake, calling it a mistake.
These are two separate equations.
So you have two separate fields, new, in zeta.
And you have a coupled set of differential equations
that are playing the role of the Dirac theory.
Coming from the Hodge theory of a complex whose obstruction
to being a homology theory would be the replacement
to the Einstein field equations, which
would be rendered gauged and variant on a group
relative to a tilted subgroup.
So now we've dealt with two of the three sectors.
Is there any generalization of the Yang-Mills equation?
Well, if we were to take the Einstein field equation
generalization and take the norm square of it,
oh, there's some point I should make here, just one second.
I've been treating this as if everything is first order.
But what really happens here is that you've got symmetries,
you've got symmetric field content,
you've got ordinary connections, and we're
neglecting to draw the fact that there
have to be equations here, too.
These equations are first order.
So why do we get to call this a first order theory
if there are equations here which are of second order?
Well, it's not a pure first order theory.
But when I say a first order theory in this context,
what I really mean is that the second order equations
are completely redundant on the first order equations
by virtue of the symmetry principle.
That is, any solution of the first order equations
should automatically imply a solution of the second order
equations.
So from that perspective, I can pretend that this isn't here
because it is sufficient to solve the first order equations.
So I can now look, let's call that entire replacement.
Which we previously called alpha.
I'm going to set alpha equal to epsilon
because I've actually been using epsilon.
The portion that is just the first order equations,
and take the norm square of that, that gives me a new Lagrangian.
And if I solve that new Lagrangian,
it leads to equations of motion that look like exactly what
we said before.
And it ends up defining an operator that looks something
like this.
dA star, the adjoint of the Schiave operator.
