somewhat turned around on my trip to England and trying
probably stupidly to do last-minute corrections, got me
a bit confused in a few places, and I wrote some things on
the board I probably shouldn't have.
I thought I would try to do something that I didn't know
and try a partial explainer for technically-oriented people
so that they're not mystified by the video.
And any errors here are my own.
I'm known to make many, so hopefully they won't be too
serious, but we'll find out.
So this is a supplementary explainer for the geometric
unity talk at Oxford that you just saw.
First of all, I think the most important thing to begin with
is to ask what new hard problems arise when you're trying
to think about a fundamental theory that aren't found
in any earlier theory.
Now, every time you have an effective theory, which
is a partial theory, there is always the idea that you can
have recourse to a lower-level strata, so you don't have to
explain in some sense everything coming from very
little or nothing.
I think that the really difficult issue that people
don't talk enough about is the problem of the fire that
lights itself.
And I think this was beautifully demonstrated by MC Escher
in his famous lithograph, Drawing Hands, where he takes
the idea of the canvas or the paper as a given, but somehow
he imagines that the canvas could wheel into existence
the ink needed to draw the hands that move the pen to draw
the hands.
That concept is actually the super tricky part, in my
opinion, about going from effective theories to any
attempt at a fundamental theory.
So with that said, what I want to think about is what
antecedents does this concept have in physics?
And I find that there really aren't any candidate theories
of everything or unified field theories that I can find that
plausibly give us an idea of how a canvas would wheel an
entire universe into being.
And so that really, to me, is the conceptual problem that I
think bedevils this and makes this step quite a bit more
difficult than some of the previous technical steps.
If you ask for antecedents, however, there is one that at
least within physics is relatively famous, and that
is by John Archibald Wheeler.
And it is a picture, in some sense, of the universe
contemplating itself.
And so this idea that somehow the universe would
contemplate itself into existence, maybe the letter U is
in some sense analogous to the paper, and somehow the I,
rather than the hand, is drawn across to look at a different
part of the U.
And whether or not that has meaning is intrinsically
always a question.
People are animated by it, but I don't know that people have
actually worked on it.
The quote of Einstein's, I think, that really speaks to me
often the most, and maybe even was my thesis problem, was
he asked whether the creator had any choice in how the
universe was constructed.
And so I think if you believe that the canvas is itself
the that which generates all of the content and all of the
action, you're left with a puzzle as to how would you
move forward from this.
It might be easier, in a mathematical sense, to
temporarily put the U on its back to put it more in line
with a standard picture that many mathematicians and
physicists will be familiar with.
In sector one of the geometric unity theory, space time is
replaced and recovered by the observers
contemplating itself.
And so there are several sectors of GU, and I wanted to go
through at least four of them.
In Einstein's space time, we have not only four degrees of
freedom, but also a space time metric representing
rulers and protractors.
If we're going to replace that, it's very tricky, because
it's almost impossible to think about what would be
underneath Einstein's theory.
Now there's a huge problem in the spinorial sector, which I
don't know why more people don't worry about, which is that
spinors aren't defined for representations of the double
cover of GL4R, the general linear group's effective spin
analog.
And as such, if we imagine that we will one day
quantize gravity, we will lose our definition not of the
electrons, but let's say of the medium in which the
electrons operate.
That is, there will be no spinorial bundle until we
have an observation of a metric.
So one thing we can do is to take a manifold xd as the
starting point and see if we can create an entire universe
from no other data, not even with a metric.
So since we don't choose a metric, what we instead do is
to work over the space of all possible point-wise metrics.
So not quite in the Feynman sense, but in the sense that
we will work over a bundle that is of a quite a bit larger
dimension.
So for example, if x was a four-dimensional, therefore d
equals 4, then y in this case would be d squared, which would
be 16, plus 3d, which would be 12, making 28, divided by 2,
which would be 14.
So in other words, a four-dimensional universe,
or sorry, a four-dimensional proto-spacetime, not a
spacetime, but a proto-spacetime with no metric,
would give rise to a 14-dimensional
observer's portion called y.
Now I believe that in the lecture in Oxford, I called that u.
So I'm sorry for the confusion, but of course this shifts
around every time I take it out of the garage.
And that's one of the problems with working on a theory in
solitude for many years.
So we have two separate spaces, and we have fields on the
two spaces.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to refer to fields on
the xd space by Hebrew letters.
So instead of g mu nu for a metric, I just wrote
gimel mem nun, and the idea being that I want to separate
Latin and Greek fields on the y space from the rather
rarer field that actually live directly on x.
So this is a little bit confusing.
One way of thinking about it is to think of the observer's as
the stands plus the pitch in a stadium.
I think I may have said that in the lecture, but this is what
replaces the questions of where and when in the newspaper
story that is a fundamental theory.
Where and when correspond to space and time, who and what
correspond to bosons and fermions, and how and why
correspond to equations and the Lagrangian that
generates them.
So if you think about those six quantities, you'll realize
that that's really what the content of a fundamental
theory is, assuming that it can be quantized properly.
Most fields, and in this case, we're going to call the
collection of two tuples omega.
So inside of omega, that will be in the first tuple, we'll
have epsilon and pi written in sort of a nontraditional
variation of how we write this symbol for pi.
In the second tuple, we'll have the letters nu and zeta.
And I would like them not to move because they honor
particular people who are important.
So most fields, in this case, omega, are dancing on y, which
was called u in the lecture, unfortunately.
But they're observed via pullback as if they lived on x.
In other words, if you're sitting in the stands, you
might feel that you're actually literally on the pitch,
even though that's not true.
So what we've done is we've taken the u of Wheeler, we've
put it on its back, and created a w structure.
And the w structure is meant to say that there's a bundle on
top of a bundle.
Again, geometric unity is more flexible than this, but I
wanted to make the most concrete approach to this
possible for at least this introduction.
And sometimes we don't need to state that y would, in fact,
be a bundle.
You could be an immersion of x into any old manifold.
But I'd like to go with the most ambitious
version of gu first.
So the two projection maps are pi 2 and pi 1.
And what we're going to say up top is that we're going to
have a symbol z and an action of a group rho on z standing
in for any bundle associated to the principle bundle, which
is generated as the unitary bundle of the spinners on the
chimeric tangent bundle to y.
That's a bit of a mouthful, but the key issue was that on
the manifold y, there happens to be a bundle, which is
isomorphic non-canonically, to the tangent bundle of y,
which has a definite and canonical metric.
And in fact, that carries the spinners.
So this is the way in which we get spinners without ever
having to choose a metric, but we pick up some technical debt
to use the computer science concept by actually having
to now work on two different spaces, x and y, and we're not
merely working on x anymore.
This leads to the mark of zoro.
That is, we know that whenever we have a metric by the
fundamental theorem of Romani in geometry, we always get a
connection.
It happens, however, that what is missing to turn the
canonical chimeric bundle on y into the tangent bundle of y
is, in fact, a connection on the space x.
So there is one way in which we've reversed the fundamental
theorem of Romani in geometry, where a connection on x leads
to a metric on y.
So if we do the full transmission mechanism out,
Gimmel on x leads to alpha sub-Gimmel for the Levy-Civita
connection on x.
Alpha sub-Gimmel leads to G sub-alpha, which is, sorry, G
sub-alpha.
I'm not used to using Hebrew in math.
So G sub-alpha then is a metric on y, and that creates a
Levy-Civita connection of the metric on the space y as well,
which then induces one on the spinorial bundles.
In sector two, the inhomogeneous gauge group on y
replaces the Poincare group and the internal symmetries that
are found on x.
And in fact, you use a fermionic extension of the
inhomogeneous gauge group to replace the supersymmetric
Poincare group.
