So in other words, this piece gives you some portion that
looks like from the Swarovitcher tensor,
there's going to be some component that's
playing the role of Einstein's field equations
directly in the Ricci tensor, but generalized.
And then you're going to have some differential operator here
so that the replacement for the Yang-Mills term,
instead of dA star of fA, you've got these two
Schiave and an adjoint Schiave together in the center,
generalizing the Yang-Mills theory.
Then you say, well, how come we don't just
see the Yang-Mills theory?
Why don't we see general relativity as well?
But in the full expansion, there's also
a term that's 0th order that's effectively
acting like the identity, which hits this as well.
So you have one piece that looks like the Yang-Mills theory.
And in these second order equations,
you also have a piece that looks like the Einstein theory.
And this is in the vacuum equations.
So then the question is, how do you
see the Dirac theory coming out of this?
And so what we're just trying to put together now
before we come out with the manuscript for this
is putting these two elliptic complexes together,
the Dirac terms, go between the two complexes.
So the idea is that the stress energy tensor should
be the up and back term, and the Dirac equations
should come out of the term that goes up and over
versus the term that goes over and up.
And you need some cancellations to make sure
that everything is of 0th order, properly invariant, et cetera.
And that's taking a little time, because frankly,
I'm not good keeping track of indices, minus signs,
left, right.
It's a learning disabled nightmare.
So we've got one more unit to go.
I mean, there's a fifth unit that has
to do with mathematical applications,
but this is sort of a physics talk for today.
Is there any questions before we go into the last unit
and then really handle questions for real?
All right, let me show you the next little bit.
We've got problems.
We're not in four dimensions, we're in 14.
We don't have great field content,
because we've just got these unadorned spinners,
and we're doing gauge transformations effectively
on the intrinsic geometric quantities,
not on some safe auxiliary data that's
tensor-producted with what our spinners are.
How is it that we're going to find anything realistic?
And then we have to remember, everything
we've been doing recently has been done on U.
We've forgotten about X.
How does all of this look to X?
So X is sitting down here, and all the action
is happening up here on U14.
There's a projection operator.
I've used pi twice.
It's not here in the field content, it's just projection.
And I've got a sigma, which is a section.
What does zeta pulled back or nu pulled back look like on X4?
Let's try to think about how we would come up
with this field content starting from first principle.
Let's imagine that there's nothing to begin with.
Then you have one copy of matter, whatever
it is that we see in our world, the first generation.
In order for that to become interesting,
it has to have an equation, so it has to get mapped somewhere.
Then we see the muon and all the rest of the matter,
that comes with it.
We have a second generation.
Then in the mid-1970s, Pearl finds the tau particle,
and we start to get panicked that we don't understand
what's going on.
One thing we can do is we could move these equations around
a little bit and move the equation for the first generation
back.
And then we could start adding particles.
Let's imagine that we could guess what particles we'd add.
We'd add a pseudo generation of 16 particles, spin 3 halves,
never before seen, not necessarily superpartners,
but we read a Schwinger matter with familiar internal quantum
numbers, but potentially so that they're flipped,
so that matter looks like antimatter to this generation.
Then we add, just for the heck of it, 144 spin 1 half fermions,
which contain a bunch of particles
with familiar quantum numbers, but also
some very exotic looking particles
that nobody's ever seen before.
Now we start doing something different.
We make an accusation.
One of our generations isn't a regular generation.
It's an imposter.
At low energy in a cooled state, potentially it
looks just the same as these other generations.
But were we somehow able to turn up the energy?
Imagine that it would unify differently
with this new matter that we've posited,
rather than simply unifying onto itself.
So two of the generations would unify onto themselves,
but this third generation would fuse with the new particles
that we've already added.
We consolidate geometrically.
We can add some zeroth order terms.
And we imagine that there is an elliptic complex that
would govern the state of affairs.
We then choose to add some stuff
that we can't see at all.
That's dark.
And this matter would be governed by forces
that were dark too.
There might be dark electromagnetism,
and dark strong, and dark weak.
It might be that things break in that sector
completely differently.
And it doesn't break down to an SU3 cross SU2 cross U1,
because these are different SU3s, SU2s, and U1s.
And it may be that there would be like a high energy SU5,
or some pati salam model.
Imagine then that chirality was not fundamental,
but it was emergent, that you had some complex.
And as long as there were cross terms,
these two halves would talk to each other.
But if the cross terms went away,
the two terms would become decoupled.
And just the way we have a left hand,
and we have a right hand, and you ask me,
imagine you have a neurological condition
and an oliver sac, sort of an idiom.
And if somebody's only aware of one side of their body,
and they say, oh my god, I'm deformed, I'm asymmetric.
But we actually have a symmetry between the two things
that can't see each other.
Then we would still have a chiral world,
but the chirality wouldn't be fundamental.
There'd be something else keeping the fermions light.
And that would be the absence of the cross terms.
Now, if you look at what happens in our replacement
for the Einstein field equations,
the term that would counterbalance the scalar curvature.
If you put these equations on a sphere,
they wouldn't be satisfied if the t term had a zero expectation
value, because there would be non-trivial scalar curvature
in the swerving terms, but there'd
be nothing to counterbalance it.
So it's fundamentally the scalar curvature
that would coax the VEV on the augmented torsion out
of the vacuum to have a non-zero level.
And if you pumped up that sphere and it smeared out
the curvature, which you can't get rid of because
of cosmological considerations, let's say from
Chernvet theory, you would have a very diffuse, very small
term, and that term would be the term that was playing
the role of the cosmological constant.
So in a large universe, you'd have a curvature that was
spread out, and things would be very light,
and things would get very dark due to the absence of
curvature linking the sectors.
And that turns out to be exactly our complex.
So in other words, just to recap, starting with nothing
other than a four-manifold, we built a bundle u.
The bundle u had no metric, but it almost had a metric.
It had a metric up to a connection.
There was another bundle on top of that bundle called the
chimeric bundle.
The chimeric bundle had an intrinsic metric.
We built our spinners on that.
We restricted ourselves to those spinners.
We moved most of our attention to the emergent metric on u14,
which gave us a map between the chimeric bundle and the
tangent bundle of u14.
We built a toolkit allowing us to choose symmetric field
content to define equations of motion on the cotangent space
of that field content, to form a homogeneous vector bundle
with the fermions, to come up with unifications of the
Einstein field equations, Yang-Mills equations, and
Dirac equations.
We then broke those things apart under decomposition,
pulling things back from u14, and we found a three-generation
model where nothing has been put in by hand, and we have a
10-dimensional normal component, which looks like the
spin-10 theory.
I can tell you where there are problems in this story.
I can tell you that when we moved from Euclidean metric to
Minkowski metric, we seemed to be off by a sign somewhere, or
I could be mistaken.
I could tell you that the propagation in 14 dimensions
has to be worked out so that we would be fooled into thinking
we were in a four-dimensional world.
There are lots of things to ask about this theory.
But I find it remarkable that tying our hands, we find
ourselves with new equations, unifications, and three
generations in a way that seems surprisingly rich,
certainly unexpected, and I think I'll stop there.
Thank you very much for your time.
So thanks for watching that video.
What I thought I would do, since that was the first time I'd
really presented the theory at all in public, and I'd gotten
