Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host Eric Weinstein and I think that
today's must be the most unusual episode yet of a podcast that has been
marked by almost regular unusual episodes. Now this is the first podcast that
I'm recording at home. I don't really have a home recording studio so we're
really doing this from chicken wire and masking tape. But I am sheltering in
place because of the worldwide COVID pandemic and what we've been asked by
the state of California and by the federal government is to shelter in
place for an upcoming month because today is April 1st. Now during a pandemic I
can assure you that no one is interested in April Fool's jokes. So the question is
what to do with the April Fool's tradition in a situation in which nobody
wants a prank. I thought that this was probably the best time to launch an idea
that I've been playing with for years and that idea is that it is dangerous to
have a world in which we are afraid to talk about what we think is true. When I
think about what happened during the beginning of the COVID pandemic I find
that we were in general intimidated from sharing our fears about the virus. We
were told that if we wore masks that we were acting in a peculiar fashion. If we
refused to shake hands that we were behaving in a strange and unpleasant
social way. We did not want to be alarmist. We did not want to be seen as
chicken little and in fact it was extremely important that we not be seen
as xenophobic given that the outbreak was originating in Wuhan China. In fact
perhaps the most dangerous idea was that this outbreak might have been
connected to some research being done in a lab perhaps a bio weapons lab. We
really don't know where this epidemic began. What is the etiology of something
that is causing the entire world economy to effectively shut down? What I
believe is that that silence has been deadly. We have many people who have now
lost their lives because we did not feel free to exchange ideas to think and to
talk and in fact many of the people who warned us first were the freest members
of society having been previously cancelled by standard mainstream
institutions and their associated media. So what I thought would be important
for in April Fool's Day that no one wants to actually participate in was to deal
with an idea that maybe one day a year we should all be free to share crazy
ideas that are going around between our ears and in our head. We're having
conversations with ourselves wondering is anyone else seeing the same thing that
I'm seeing. But we are too afraid because the social stigma for actually
believing in things that maybe things are possible or perhaps there's a
conspiracy somewhere. Perhaps we are ill-prepared. For example, I believe that
our current pandemic is exacerbated because our government and our readiness
is ours failed to stock adequate supplies and that these supplies were
called for in the academic literature for years. There was absolutely no excuse
not to have personal protective equipment stocked for doctors and
nurses and hospitals to say nothing of all of the people who were in the front
lines of treating patients sick with COVID. Now currently I don't believe that
you can trust the World Health Organization. Absolutely not. I don't think
you can trust the Surgeon General of the United States and I absolutely don't
think you can trust the CDC because they are all covering for our inadequacy. This
was a problem that we always knew was coming and we at one point had stocks
which apparently were depleted under a previous administration and not restocked
under this administration. In fact, our fear of dealing with a pervasive
institutional incompetence has blinded us to the degradation in our society
across all major institutions. As I've discussed before on the program, I believe
that this has a singular etiology. That is, that because of embedded growth
obligations coming from the previous era of unsustainable post-war growth from
about 1945 to 1971-73 something like that, we built in expectations to our
system that cannot currently be met. We will not have technology that follows
the same breakneck pace of innovation. As a result, we have a system whereby the
heads of our organizations are forced to cover for their inadequacies because
growth is built into the system that cannot be sustained. Therefore, there is
not the funding, the manpower, there is not the wherewithal to continue many of
our programs because we do not actually have the ability to continue to simply
grow our way out, at least so far. So what's today's program about? Well, I
thought that what I would do is to let go of something that I've been keeping
pretty close for, I think, about 37 years. When I was around 19, I started, it's hard
to talk about, when I was around 18 or 19, I was at the University of Pennsylvania
and I thought I saw a glimmer of hope. I thought I saw that some new equations
that were being played with might actually provide a solution to some of the
problems that had bedeviled Einstein and others for years in the quest for a
unified field theory. Now, it's an embarrassing thing to say that one is a
unified field theorist. It is effectively equivalent to saying I'm interested in
perpetual motion machines or that I have a private cure for cancer that I'm
trying on rabbits in my backyard. However, I actually think that it's
important to fess up because that's exactly what this is. Now, in my situation,
I have an extremely unusual history and I really don't want to get bogged down in
all of the things that happened while I was a student trying to develop this
theory because it is not a particularly happy story. I believe that this theory
is an incredibly joyous one. Now, in this situation, I want to talk about what it
means to have a theory of everything. We've never seen one and in fact, not
only have we never seen a theory of everything, we've never even seen, I
believe, a candidate for a theory of everything. And because a theory of
everything would have to have different characteristics than I believe every
theory that has gone before, we don't think enough about what the difference is
between what we would normally call in physics an effective theory and a
fundamental one. Now, if you're familiar with the M.C. Escher drawing called
Drawing Hands, it is a lithograph of two hands apparently drawing each other
into existence on some kind of a canvas or piece of paper. That is sometimes
referred to as a strange loop. But it, in fact, is an attempt to answer the
question, what is the fire that lights itself? This is the problem that
bedevils us when we search for a unified theory that doesn't bedevil us, in my
opinion, in any previous effective theory. Now, why is that? Well, many people
confuse a theory of everything as if they imagine that it's a theory in which
you can compute every eventuality. And it is absolutely not that because the
computational power is very different than the question of whether or not the
rules are effectively given. I've analogized it to a game of chess and
knowing all of the rules is equivalent to a theory of everything. Knowing how to
play chess well is an entirely different question. But in the case of a theory of
everything, or a unified field theory, if you will, many people also take it to
be an answer to the question, why is there something rather than nothing? And I
don't think that this is, in fact, what a theory of everything is meant to be
either. Now, why is that? Well, because I believe at some level it is impossible for
most of us to imagine an airtight argument, mathematically speaking, which
coaxes out of an absolute void a something. However, there's a different
question which I think might actually animate us and which is the right
question to ask of a potential candidate. And that is, how does one get
everything from almost nothing? In the MC Escher drawing or lithograph, hands
drawing hands or drawing hands, what we see is that the paper is presupposed.
That is, if you could imagine a theory of everything, it would be like saying, if I
posit the paper, can the paper will the ink into being such that the ink gives
rise to the pens and the pens draw the hands, which in fact, manipulate the
pens to use the ink. That kind of a problem is one which is of a very
different character than everything that has gone before. It is also, in my
opinion, an explanation of why the physics community has been stalled for
nearly 50 years since around 1973, when the standard model was intellectually
in place. Now, consider this. We have never had in modern times a drought where no
person working in pure fundamental theory has taken a trip to Stockholm just as a
rough indicator for contributing to the standard model. No one, in my opinion,
since let's see, Frank Wilczek, who was born in 1951, no one born after that
time has in fact contributed to the standard model in a clear and profound
way. That is not to say that no work has been done, but for the most part, the
current generation of physicists has for more than 40 years and almost 50 years
remain stagnant within the standard paradigm of physics, which is positing
theories that are then verified by experiment. Now, my belief, which is
relatively radical, is that there is no way to get to our final destination
using the tools that have gotten us to where we are now. In other words, what
got you here cannot get you there. And in particular, one of the biggest
problems we have is the political economy of science. We have effectively
starved our scientific enterprise for resources, creating a dire and cutthroat
competition, which has completely deranged the scientific tradition. And so one
of the things that's going to happen in this lecture is that I'm simply going
to announce that I have broken and have broken for many years with just about
every expectation of standard science. That is not to say that the equations or
the style of presentation is going to be foreign, quite the contrary. I have every
intention of writing up some results in standard terminology wherever possible
using popular mathematical type setting programs, but it goes far deeper than
this. My belief is that what we've created is a career structure, a journal
structure, an employment structure, an access structure that cannot possibly
complete the job. And why is that? Well, what if in the last leg, in fact, we had
a situation by which an attempt at the fundamental theory would result almost
certainly in career suicide? Now, if you think of that as an explanation, you would
realize that it has the power to synchronize failure across many seemingly
independent experiments. And I believe that that's exactly what's been going on
through the so-called string theory revolutions one, two, and perhaps three.
Now, in that case, what happened was a theory became fixed in the minds of really
the baby boom generation of physicists because it allowed for infinite
elaboration within a mathematical or, more particularly, a geometric context.
And those supposed physicists spent their time submitting papers to what's called
the high energy section of the so-called preprint archive. But in fact, most of
these papers have nothing to do with high energy physics whatsoever. And if you're
looking for the designation, it's HEPTH, high energy physics-theory. Now, if you
look through those papers, they don't seem to have much to do with particles.
They don't seem to have to do with forces and spacetime. They seem to have to do
with very strange and obscure mathematical issues. And in the years since the
string theory program got particularly reanimated, I guess that would be around
1984 with the anomaly cancellation of Green and Schwartz, what you'll find is
that physics became very active and simultaneously ground to a halt. It
failed to remain a physical subject. It became something like a medieval quest
for the number of angels to dance on the head of a pit. Now, in this circumstance,
I think it's very important to realize that this is not a paper, and we are not
submitting to the archive. In fact, the archive requires people who are not
employed at universities to get permission from some member of the
community, which is called an endorsement, which I find absolutely
insulting, and I refuse to go along with. Furthermore, we are expected to cite
papers, sometimes which are behind paywalls. And I think that it's absolutely
immoral to ask people to pay outside the system to read the papers to cite
other people's work. I could go on about the number of things that are currently
wrong with the system, but instead what I would like to do is to simply joyously
I have every intention of simply sharing this with you and jealously guarding my
right to shepherd this through. Now, what does that mean? In two previous episodes,
we've had interactions with academicians, which I think are interesting and bear
scrutiny. In the first case, in an interview with the economist Tyler Cowan,
I talked to Tyler about the fact that the Boschian Commission was in fact
committing economic malpractice. Now, why was that? It was because they decided
that they needed to transfer a trillion dollars over 10 years and that they had
found a devious way of doing it, which is to adjust the CPI. By backing out the
amount of adjustment needed to get a trillion dollars, they decided that a
1.1% overstatement in the CPI would cause a reduction in entitlements, that is
Medicare and Medicaid payments together with Social Security, as well as an
increase in taxes because tax brackets are also indexed. Now, to my mind, it is
absolutely unconscionable to say that you have a right to transfer wealth
cryptically by adjusting a fundamental barometer. That would be like saying, in
order to meet our global warming targets, we have to recalibrate all the
thermometers to show that, in fact, things have cooled. One simply can't do
that in science, but Tyler's response I found was very interesting. His
perspective was that this was, in fact, not a terrible thing because it was
quote, directionally correct. And in general, he believed that because the CPI
should be considered overstated that this was not the world's most terrible
thing to do as an economist. I respect Tyler a great deal and I enjoy his
company, but I have to say that I am absolutely of a different opinion. My
belief is that one has no rights and no ability as a scientist to fudge the data
to meet social goals in this fashion. Another interesting interaction was the
interaction with Professor Agnes Collard of the University of Chicago. Now, when
she listened to episode 19 about Brett Weinstein, she found that it was a very
compelling episode. But strangely, even though the point of the episode was to
surface Brett's long forgotten theory, because Brett had not been acknowledged
as having predicted that laboratory mice would in particular have radically
elongated telomeres, where it was thought that all mice had radically elongated
telomeres, which has incredible potential implications for drug testing and all of
the work that is done on laboratory rodents as model organisms. This is an
episode you should definitely listen to if you haven't already. But Agnes's
perspective was very different than mine. Her feeling was that because we were in
a situation in which the work actually surfaced, that the system worked even if
it was the case that Brett's name was erased from the history of the
