cacobiquia, is found consistently in the gunflint cherts of western Ontario, dating to 1.88 billion years.
Other microfossils are found from rocks all over the world, indicating their global
dominance within the mesoprotozoic. Finely reticulated spheres of Dictiosphera
sit alongside Tapania and Shuyu Sphereridium, with their branching and interlinking spines.
All are found in rocks of China and Australia, dating between 1.75 and 1.45 billion years old.
Slightly younger rocks of the protozoic dating to 1.2 billion years are found in the hunting
formation in Canada, and these are host to a curious association of seemingly differentiated cells.
Different shapes are confined to different parts of the organised structure.
And paleontologists believe this is one of the earliest instances of complex and consistent
multicellularity and sexual reproduction.
By 1 billion years ago, eukaryotic cells have even made it out of the oceans and onto land,
or at least into the non-marine waters of the Torridan lakes of modern day Northwest Scotland.
One species native to these ancient lakes is by Selum Brassieri, also featuring differentiated cells.
Even before the end of the Boring Billion, it seems that life is already well on its way to
complex multicellularity. But what of the deeper history of eukaryotes?
Our modern protozoic paleontologist no longer needs to worry about a paucity of fossils to study.
To compare her finds with ones that have already been documented,
she visits the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History.
She wastes no time with the exhibits, impressive as they may be,
walking past T-Rex skeletons and gigantic fossil stromatolites
to a small unmarked door in the corner of one of the halls.
She steps through the door and into a different world.
Gone are the information boards creative lighting and screaming children,
and she's instead faced with passageways lined with cabinets,
gathering dust that dulls their already monochrome colour scheme.
Navigating this backstage labyrinth, she eventually finds herself in the same room
as the fossils she is searching for, but she still has to work to find them.
The good thing about microfossils is that they don't take up much room,
but 70 years of protozoic paleontology has nevertheless accumulated an impressive number
of specimens. Cabinets stretch floor to ceiling and are crowned in back to back,
with scarcely room to slide a piece of paper between them.
But these stores are mounted on wheels driven by geared winding handles,
and as the young paleontologist winds, the cabinet slowly rolls to the side,
allowing her to walk along the newly created space and commence her search in earnest.
The store is filled with brown shoeboxes, each full of protozoic treasures mounted
on their glass slides and labelled with a careful hand.
Small red dots in the corner of some labels indicate sections that are priceless beyond measure.
They are the designated holotypes, the first and presumably finest example of a given species
to which all subsequent specimens can be compared.
One box alone may contain a dozen slides, and in the entire room there are thousands of such
boxes. Indeed, there is no shortage of fossils from which to draw our conclusions.
Ornamented microfossils of the type that can only be formed by eukaryotic internal complexity
have been found in rocks as old as 1.6 billion years.
Dictiosphera, Germanosphera, Terraspermopsimorpha,
Simea and Valyria are all morphologically complex forms recovered from the Paleo-Proterozoic
Changcheng group of Northern China.
More ambiguous eukaryotic evidence is to be found in even older instances of exceptional
preservation. Fossils found in the 1.8 billion year old Changzhougu rocks in Northern China
seem to show some of the outer ornamentation expected from eukaryotes,
but without any of the other features to suggest complexity, they are not the most compelling
of examples. Remembering the tenet that exceptional claims require exceptional evidence,
the claim of the earliest eukaryotes must be backed up by more than just a faint pattern
seen in the right light. And yet, remarkably, even this example is surpassed in age by another
claimant for the title of the earliest eukaryote. Long, thin spirals,
scrawled in dark carbon, were discovered in 1899 in 1.3 billion year old rocks of Montana.
At first, they were interpreted as trace fossils, figurative footprints in the sand left behind
by a simple burrowing worm, but in 1976 the fossil was reanalyzed and set against the emerging
picture of late animal evolution to provide a new interpretation. These curious doodles are
extremely thin, flattened films of biological carbon up to 9 centimeters long if straightened out.
Paleontologists believe them to be the flattened remains of a large, seaweed-like organism that
they have named Gripania. In order to grow so large, we assume eukaryotic organization as a play.
This is fine for the Gripenia discovered in Montana. It sits alongside other examples of
crude multicellularity, but when Gripania was discovered in rocks more than 2 billion years old,
we must challenge our assumptions once again. Is the eukaryotic interpretation right?
If so, could these giant eukaryotic specimens be among the first on Earth?
Even older carbon-rich fossils have been discovered in fine-grain shales dating to
3.2 billion years old. Some have argued for their eukaryotic nature based on their large size.
At 300 microns or 3 tenths of a millimeter, they are much smaller than Gripania,
but still larger than most known bacterium.
For this extraordinary claim, however, there is no more evidence.
Of course, other methods have been devised to try and trace eukaryotes back to their roots
through Earth history. Just as the cellular machinery of these more advanced cells can
create complicated structures on the outer wall, so too can they produce complicated chemistry
that no physical or prokaryotic process can replicate.
And so, there is still no consensus on how to verify the antiquity of a molecule.
Other techniques can involve the analysis of genetic change and differences among living
eukaryotes. Reconstructing family trees of the eukaryotic kingdoms and tracing those trees back
to their roots using an assumed rate of evolutionary change, so-called molecular clocks
can put a date on the origin of eukaryotes with no fossils necessary.
Some of these analyses also pin the beginning of complex cells to a date of around 2.7 billion
years, but there is by no means a consensus on the approach used to arrive at that date.
There are so many assumptions in the shape of the evolutionary tree and the rate of change over
evolutionary time that any proposed dating becomes all but meaningless.
Today, the pre-Cambrian fossil record has been revealed to us in all its glory.
We are pretty certain we know how complex eukaryotic life came about, and we have a good and growing
history of how it developed in its earliest billion years or so.
But finding the very first eukaryote, the basis for all complex life to come, is a much harder task.
It is likely the eukaryotes as we know them today actually came about gradually.
Beginning with the sealing of the endosymbiotic pact and continuing with the iterative development
of internal architecture throughout the relative stasis of the boring billion.
Approaching evolution from the more traditional direction, the invention of membrane-bound
organelles and nucleus as well as an organisational cytoskeleton and the internal chemistry needed
to support it would take an extremely long time.
Thus, instead of modern eukaryotes appearing fully formed at some point in the protozoic,
we can expect a sliding scale of complexity, from cells to the barely improved prokaryotes,
to cells that are capable of combining in their multitudes, differentiating and building the
world as we see it today.
This increasing simplicity as we trace the fossil record deeper into the pre-Cambrian
is matched by the increasing uncertainty we have when interpreting these most ancient fossils.
We may never know what was the first true eukaryote, if there even is such a thing upon this sliding
scale. And yet, with the wealth of fossil evidence now available to us for the bulk of the protozoic,
we do stand a better chance of understanding the transitions that came about after eukaryotes have
taken the stage.
The fog has been well and truly lifted on one of the most cryptic periods of Earth's history.
And as organisms grow ever larger and more complex, the late pre-Cambrian world begins to
look ever more like the world we inhabit today.
The next 800 million years promise great things for complex eukaryotic life.
You've been watching the entire history of the Earth.
Don't forget to like and subscribe and leave a comment to tell us what you think.
Next up, we are no longer billions of years in the past, but hundreds of millions.
We're diving into one of the strangest times in Earth's history,
when the entire planet was covered by ice.
