are subtly altered. With a thorough understanding of the kinds of structures life can build today,
we can search the rocks for such traces as well.
For instance, tidal estuaries are ideal habitats for microorganisms that don't mind the brackish,
part salty waters that wash over them. Neutrients delivered by the river are deposited along with
fine sand and mud in shallow tidal waters that are protected from the worst of the battering waves.
Here, vast, layered communities of microbes can grow on and in the sediment,
spreading out to make the most of the sun's rays. Even if the conditions don't contrive to
build stromatolite tower blocks, these biomats can still leave a trace in the resulting rocks.
Their surfaces become tufted and wrinkled by the action of water on their organically-woven fabric.
As the delta streams shift or storm surges dump new sediment on top,
these tufts and wrinkles are locked in place, and the unique chemistry of these aqueous environments
tips the balance of petrification, allowing the patterns to be preserved as moulds and casts,
before the organic matter of the biofilm rots away.
Today, pre-Cambrian paleontologists scour the top and lower surfaces of the biophilms.
The top and lower surfaces of rocks for the shadowy hints of wrinkled biomats.
Searching at sunset when the sun is low reveals intricate patterns formed by sun-hungry biological
fabric many hundreds of millions of years ago. For many paleontologists today, turning over
a slab to find its bottom surface decorated with fine tufts and wrinkles formed by ephemeral,
microscopic organisms is a thrill akin to discovering a dinosaur footprint.
It is a brief moment of time, miraculously captured for the ages.
But there is an even more miraculous process occurring in some of these ancient rocks.
If pre-Cambrian paleontologists were encouraged to set aside their biases before,
now they must throw away the rulebook entirely.
In the 1950s, around the same time that Australian ecologists were discovering
living stromatolites, geologists on the opposite side of the world were uncovering something
even stranger.
Elso Barghorn and Stanley Tyler investigated curiously carbon-rich rocks from the
gunflint range of western Ontario. Layers of coal-like rock contain no fossils,
but they hint that life was extremely abundant here, abundant enough to accumulate carbon
within the sediments themselves.
Elsewhere, among the gunflint rocks, they find a dark, glassy chert, adding it to their pack
for analysis when they return to the lab.
Standard geological analysis often involves slicing paper-thin sections of a rock,
making it thin enough so light can pass through it, and experts can identify the minerals by
their microscopic characteristics. But when Tyler and Barghorn subject their
chert samples to this process, they find something they don't expect.
Speckled all throughout the fine crystals of silicon dioxide, there are tiny grains of carbon.
It's this that is responsible for the chert's black colour, but in places these
specks are gathered together in three-dimensional spheres, filaments, and star-shaped groupings,
each no more than around 10 microns, or a hundredth of a millimetre across.
In both shape and size, they resemble living microbes, but they are nearly 2,000 million years old.
Could they really be biological in origin?
Such delicate forms preserved for so long.
Over the last 70 years since this incredible gunflint discovery, scientists have found chemical
and petrological justification for how such impossible fossils could come to exist.
Remembering that fossilisation is a race between degradation and preservation, for the most delicate
of organic structures to be preserved, then that preservation needs to happen at an unprecedented
rate. Indeed, the petrification process must begin while these cells are still alive.
Certain quirks of chemistry, more common in the exotic and undisturbed seas and
lakes of the Precambrian, can see certain mineral fluids become super saturated in natural waters.
Silicon dioxide or phosphate ions build up and are further concentrated by the microbes that
inhabit the seafloor. As they reach unsustainable levels and a kind of gel begins to precipitate,
the luckless microbes are encased in a mineral tomb, from which there is no escape.
Deprived of the nutrients they need to survive, the cells die.
But they are already beyond the reach of any that might reuse their carbon.
As the mineral gel crystallises and hardens, the cells are frozen in their death mask,
protected even from the lifeless chemistry that would reduce them to formous blobs.
If crystallisation happens fast enough, then the cells are preserved in the three-dimensional
positions they inhabited at the moment of their death.
If not, and the gel is flattened by sediments deposited on top, then the detail is retained,
but not their positions. Three dimensions are reduced to two, as the delicate fossils are
flattened, like pressed flowers between layers of mud and sand.
This mineral sarcophagus is enough to allow even the most delicate cells to stand the test of time.
As long as the rocks themselves survive, so does their microfossil treasure.
When, hundreds of millions of years later, paleontologists slice those rocks and put them
under the microscope. Would dissolve away the crystalline tombs with acid?
They are greeted with delicate, organic gawld forms that look remarkably similar to modern
cyanobacteria, algae and other single-celled microbes.
Just like insects preserved in amber, these appear to be cells that have been frozen in time.
Only they are seven times as old, and many times smaller and more flimsy.
It seems almost too perfect to be true, and indeed the true nature and antiquity of such
exceptionally preserved microfossils has been called into question many times.
Naturally, the older the rock, the more questionable it is that the microfossil
bounty has survived intact. And these are not intricate insects in amber,
but forms that are much more simple. Are they really biological cells that are billions of
years old, or is it simply wishful thinking? It has been said by pre-cambrian paleontologists
from both camps that extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. Impossible
fossils that seem to buck the trend of all fossilization before them must be subjected
to more rigorous validation than any other. We must prove that they are formed by life,
and we must prove that they were formed at the same times the rocks themselves, not introduced later.
Luckily, the science of exceptional preservation has matured to the point
where such verification is now routine. Along with documenting the shapes, sizes and
associations of microfossils within an ancient rock, experts also look for chemical signals
that suggest a biological rather than chemical origin. They look for certain complexity in
structure which can't be achieved by physical processes alone, and the surrounding rocks
are analyzed in minute and microscopic detail to calm any fears that the microbes could have
been introduced after the minerals had formed. Now, organic walled microfossils from the pre-cambrian
are no longer impossible, but an important part of our paleontological inventory,
stretching back at least two and a half billion years.
It may not be a full picture, but some two centuries after his birth, it is a better picture than
Charles Darwin ever hoped to have. And we now begin the more challenging task of interpreting
exactly what it is that picture shows.
Lynn Margulis was not your traditional scientist. Once married to the famous cosmologist Carl Sagan,
she looked at the world of evolutionary biology in her own unique, holistic way.
She wasn't interested in how one organism functioned,
but pioneered considering the links between even the most disparate creatures.
She didn't consider individual habitats as their own isolated environments,
but rather looked at the entire earth system as a vast, interconnected and self-regulating
super-organism. Her theories were wild and unconstrained by popular opinion,
earning her the title, Science's Unruly Earth Mother.
One such theory took shape in her mind in 1966 as she took up her post teaching biology at Boston
University. She posited that the more complex eukaryotic cells from which all higher multi-cellular
organisms are built came about not from competition, but by cooperation.
Normally, evolution by natural selection brings about changes in living things by favouring certain
traits within a species naturally occurring variation, under competitive conditions where
resources are scarce. But Margulis suggested that in the case of eukaryotes, things happened a little
differently. When nutrients ran short in the ancestral prokaryotic world, different bacterial
cells contrived to work together to increase both of their survival chances. This packed or
symbiosis was secured by a physical association. One type of prokaryote would physically come to
live inside another and reproduce alongside it. And thus Margulis' theory of endosymbiosis took shape.
It seems like a strange assertion, and indeed it was too strange, too unsupported by actual
evidence for many to accept it straight away. Margulis submitted her paper to about 15 scientific
journals before one, the Journal of Theoretical Biology, finally agreed to publish it.
She spoke about the theory everywhere she went, but scientific seminars,
conferences, workshops and even among friends. But for a long time, the idea of bacterial cooperation
was just too much for many to countenance. For about 15 years, Lynn's ideas were considered
fringe science and perhaps never taken completely seriously. But by the 1980s, a new analytical
technique gave the endosymbiotic theory the spark of credibility it needed.
It was discovered that mitochondria, the famed powerhouses of the eukaryotic cell,
have their own unique DNA that is unrelated to the DNA of the host.
Later, the same was shown to be true for chloroplasts.
Margulis had claimed that these structures were once independent organisms,
and now their genetic signatures were indicating that was true.
It looked like she had been right all along.
Having ridden the endosymbiotic storm from rejection through suspicion and eventually
to orthodoxy, Lynn Margulis's unruly approach to science only deepened and she developed a taste
for the controversial. She worked with James Lovelock to give substance to his Gaia theory
that the earth is a single, self-regulating superorganism.
And fought hard to make her case for five kingdoms of life, animals, plants, fungi,
single cell eukaryotic protists and prokaryotic monera. She even went so far as to reject the
three domains of life that emerged from genetic analysis of prokaryotes, despite the fact that
it was this very genetic analysis that had given substance to endosymbiosis.
Nevertheless, as unorthodox as her opinions and approach may have been, there can be no denying
Lynn Margulis's uncompromising passion for microscopic life. And she was one of its most
vocal advocates right up until her death in 2011.
And of course, there is a surprising diversity of primitive life. Prokaryotes are most commonly
depicted as simple, pill-shaped rods, but they can also be spheres, filaments, loose spirals,
as well as various bunched and tangled associations of all these. In size, they typically range from
less than a tenth of a micron to five microns in length. Modern eukaryotes by contrast are larger
and more complex. Inside their cells, they contain the organelles obtained by endosymbiosis,
including the mitochondria, chloroplasts and tail-like flagella. But they are also packed to
bursting with other cellular machinery and internal membranes, thought to have evolved by more traditional,
natural selective means. Genetic material doesn't float freely throughout the cell,
but is instead contained in a membrane-bound nucleus. And there is an ephemeral but highly
organized structure to the gel-like cytoplasm, which helps coordinate the complex processes of
cell splitting and sexual reproduction. It is called a cytoskeleton.
It is this internal organization that allows eukaryotes to become the basis of all higher
forms of life, the macroscopic, multicellular organisms that evolved much later.
If we are to search for eukaryotes in the Precambrian fossil record, we must take a lesson
from Lynn Margulis and think laterally. If the internal features of this more complex life
aren't preserved, then instead we must search for features from which we can infer a more complex
organization. These are things that something only a cell with organelles, like a cytoskeleton, can
accomplish. One such feature is the microfossil's size. In general, prokaryotes tend to be smaller
than 5 microns in diameter, and eukaryotes are at least 10 microns across. But even today,
we see exotic supersized bacteria or miniature eukaryotes. Encapsulated colonies of bacteria
can easily reach a larger size, and once self-digestion occurs, there is no way to tell who the outer
case belongs to. So size is a good first indication, but is by no means reliable. A much more reliable
indication can be found in the organic walls of the microfossils themselves. A simple cell wall
is easy enough to build, but any patterns or embellishments require more cellular organization
than a prokaryote can muster. So paleontologists agree that any organic microfossil that is adorned
with spines or other external structures and ornamentation must in fact be derived from a more
complex eukaryote. More simple outer walls and sheaths are more difficult to pin down.
But again, some clues can point towards a level of organization only possible with complex internal
machinery. Many modern single celled eukaryotes are able to survive through periods of environmental
stress by encasing themselves in more resistant cysts from which they emerge when conditions are
improved. And nothing is more environmentally stressful than suddenly being encased in mineral gel.
So we can expect to find these cysts among the microfossil assemblages.
The simple, structural-less innards of the average prokaryotic cell could never build a tree.
Or a jellyfish. Or a human. It takes the complexity of a eukaryotic cell to make the visible life on
earth as we know it. Of course such complex machinery takes time to evolve, even with
endosymbiosis providing a leap off the starting line. And it's thought that the boring billion,
the period of unprecedented geological stability between 1.8 and 0.8 billion years ago,
provided the perfect conditions to gestate these changes. Now that exceptional preservation
throughout the precambrian is offering us a window on the microscopic life that thrived at this time,
can we find evidence of these monumental evolutionary changes in the fossils themselves?
And even possibly answer the question, what and when was the first complex eukaryotic life?
A protozoic fossil hunter is unlike any other kind of paleontologist.
Walking among ancient rocks, she doesn't hope to find a promising curl or lump producing from a
rock surface, and she would never expect to find her prize washed up among the screen at the base of
a cliff. Instead, she is meticulous about documenting every geological detail of the freshest exposure
of rock she can find, collecting evidence from far and wide to interpret the environment in
which these layers formed and what geological torture they have endured until now. In strata
that is sufficiently unaltered, she scours the rock for minute differences in the minerals that
make them up. Extracting seemingly uninteresting slivers from within these layers, she labels them
carefully, noting their position and orientation, before unceremoniously tossing them into a backpack
among tens of others just like them, packing them securely back at the hostel for the flight home.
Back at the lab, it's time to process her finds. Some she will cut, exposing fresh surfaces that
haven't seen the sun for a billion years, and then mount those surfaces onto glass slides
and grind them until they are just a few tens of microns thick. Other samples she will dissolve in
hydrofluoric acid, which will melt away all rocks and minerals leaving only the organic matter behind.
This too will be mounted onto glass slides and fixed in place.
Finally, in a darkened room thousands of miles from the journey start and thousands of hours later,
she slips the glass slide beneath her microscope and peers with some trepidation through the eyepiece.
Only then will she know whether she has found something or not, whether her training and
geological eye has revealed a treasure of the protozoic or if all that work has been for nothing.
It is an exhilarating feeling, looking through the eyepiece and finding the bounty of the protozoic
laid out, and it's a feeling that many paleontologists have experienced over the years.
There have now been countless discoveries of microfossils from protozoic rocks all over the
world, spanning huge swathes of time.
The gunflint biota, including the curiously star-shaped Eusatrian and umbrella-like
