Rev. Robert Plott is an educated man, a professor of chemistry at the prestigious University
of Oxford, but he is as excited as a child at Christmas when new parcels arrive.
In 1677 he hurries around the grass quad of University College and bursts through the
heavy oak door of the ground floor lodgings.
It is just as well they are on the ground floor because the parcel that greets him fills the
entranceway. It is a huge crate, battered and splintered. It must have taken three or four
porters to bring it inside, not to mention the poor horses that pulled it all away from Cornwall.
Plott wastes no time in prying the wooden slats apart and revealing the bounty within.
Nestled among straw and wooden shavings, there are rocks. Curious shapes and patterns,
each accompanied by notes written in loose flowing cursive.
He pulls each one out, briefly admiring it, turning it in his hands before setting it down
and reaching in for the next. When the crate is almost empty, his searching hands encounter a
smooth, rounded surface. It takes two hands to pull it from its nest, the reverent marvels at this
unique specimen. Two rounded bulbs join where they touch and morph into a smooth cylindrical stem
with a seemingly hollow centre. To plot, it looks like a bone, but it is made from stone and it is
unimaginably huge.
At this time, in the late 17th century, debate runs rife among natural historians as to the
true nature and origin of fossils. Some believe them to be the remains of ancient creatures,
long since dead, while others prefer to dismiss them as tricks of the eye, shapes that are formed
naturally by the growth of salt crystals beneath the ground. Others still suggest that fossils are
the so-called seeds of plants and animals that have descended deep into the earth and begun to
germinate there. But Robert Plot is a sceptical man of science, and with no way that he can see
for living things to be preserved in solid rock, he tends to favour the salt crystal interpretation.
He has spent the last few years studying the shell-like fossils found in Oxfordshire quarries,
likening them to the crystal patterns produced by, of all things, crystallised urine.
But not all structures to be found in the rocks can fit this simplistic crystalline explanation.
Plot eventually concludes that this magnificent specimen is in fact a petrified leg bone of some
unimaginably large creature. Perhaps it comes from something like the impressive Roman war
elephants he saw in the flesh just a year earlier, or perhaps it belongs to a long-lost race of giants.
So, 100 years later, the bone, now part of Oxford's natural history collections,
is studied again by another man of science, Richard Brooks.
The understanding of fossils is advanced by this point, and many more accept the possibility that
they are remnants of long-dead creatures. And Brooks is keen to use his knowledge of animal
and human anatomy to interpret this curious specimen. For the first time, he gives the rock a name.
He calls it scrotum humanum, making clear the fossils kinship with a certain specific part
of a giant human's anatomy. Of course, Brooks' interpretation was a little off the mark.
We have no evidence of a race of giant humans, either by the bones or the stones they left behind.
Plot's Cornish bone has now been identified as the thigh bone of a megalosaurus,
the first dinosaur ever to be described.
Since the dawn of paleontology, scientists have been forced to challenge the assumptions about
what is and isn't possible. About what Earth's rocks really tell us.
Plot and his contemporaries were occupied with whether fossils were even real at all.
But now, we use them as a tool to probe our own multi-billion-year history.
Just how much can the fossil record show us? How far does it go back?
Can we use it to find the first complex life? And how can we be sure our interpretations are correct?
This video is sponsored by Blinkist, an excellent tool for absorbing knowledge wherever you are.
Ever wanted to read a classic book but simply couldn't find the time?
Well, Blinkist is here to help you out. Breaking down epics ranging from sapiens
to the origin of species into 15-minute bite-sized chunks. You can easily absorb on your commute
or other times that would otherwise be wasted. It's a truly excellent tool for lifelong learners
and a great accompaniment to our channel. Should you wish to learn more?
Like other educational apps, all you need to do is download the app,
sign up for an account and you can listen wherever you are. And when you do,
make sure to use our link. We've teamed up with Blinkist to offer you an exclusive
seven-day free trial and 25% off a premium membership. More than 5,000 titles are already
available, with more being released all the time. So click on the link in the description below to
activate your free trial now. Thanks. Now, back to Earth's distant past.
The chances of anything becoming a fossil, be it a towering T-Rex or diminutive dragonfly,
are vanishingly small. The circumstances and conditions that allow traces of life to persist
through geological time are so few in number as to be almost impossible to engineer or predict.
Normally, when an organism dies, it is simply eaten by another creature,
recycled back into the great circle of life.
Even if not consumed by a predator or scavenger, microscopic detritivors and
saprophytes, colonizers of forest floors, riverbeds and ocean bottoms,
make short work of any organic matter that falls into their domain.
Bacteria break down and water washes the rest away, leaving only the hardest bones and shells.
In time, these too will oxidize and crumble away to dust,
that becomes soil and nutrients for the next generation of life.
This is the fate of almost anything that has ever lived.
To be so thoroughly broken down to our component molecules,
and reincarnated in the next cycle of life.
But in some exceedingly rare cases, a dead organism against all probability
is able to break the wheel, to escape the endless cycle.
There are a few places on earth where the relentless recycling of organic matter is
sufficiently slowed to allow some remnant of a creature to persist long enough to leave a trace
in the rocks.
Perhaps an animal is washed away to the ocean depths,
never stopping anywhere long enough to become food.
Perhaps a fallen tree is so quickly covered by
mud and sand as a river breaks its banks, that it's swamped before the rod sets in.
Or perhaps a freak change in water chemistry is enough to kill everything stuck within its toxic
extent, excluding potential scavengers for many years to come.
Of course life on earth is famed for its tenacity,
and there are a few physical or chemical phenomena that can keep voracious bacteria at bay.
Even in the deep dark ocean depths, meters below the surface of a tarry swamp,
or in a seemingly toxic pool of acid, there will be bacteria able to survive,
and feed on the organic bounty that comes their way.
Soft flesh is easy pickings for these microscopic scavengers,
and they leave only those hard parts, bones, teeth and shells, that are too tough to consume.
So in these dark, buried chemical exclusion zones, the hard parts
persist, and become one with the rock.
Over time the soft sediments are compressed by the weight of more deposited on top.
Water is squeezed out. New minerals are precipitated, and old minerals are lost.
Fossilization is now a race between chemical and geological processes.
As sediments turn into rock, can new minerals move in and preserve the structure of the bones,
teeth and shells, before the original minerals are lost?
In the rare cases that they do, a fossil is born.
If not, then even the hardest of shells is dissolved,
and the void it left crushed out of all existence.
This unforgiving gauntlet, which every dead organism must run if it hopes to be
granted a fossil afterlife, sees only one bone in a billion preserved within the rocks.
For creatures with no natural hard parts, or which live far from the kind of environments
that favor preservation, the odds are stacked against them.
Paleontologists estimate that less than 0.1% of all species that have ever lived have become fossils,
and far fewer of those fossils have actually been found.
Nevertheless, and perhaps testament to the sheer number of organisms that have walked
swam, flew or slithered across the Earth, there is an astounding wealth of fossils to be found in our rocks.
The very existence of a fossil record is what defines an entire eon of Earth history.
The Phanerozoic, from 541 million years ago to today, is so named in Greek after the visible
life within rock layers dating to this time.
There are bones, teeth and shells, but also the impressions of trees and leaves,
and in especially rare cases, footprints, fur and feathers.
Reverend Robert Plott was among the first to tap into this Phanerozoic treasure,
and in the centuries since, paleontology has grown to interpret life, evolution and environment
on the basis of these fossil remains.
And tracing the fossils of the Phanerozoic back through time,
a pattern emerges of increasing simplicity with increasing age.
Large and complex skeletons give way to more rudimentary carapaces and modest shells.
And then, to first appearances at least, in the lowermost Cambrian rocks that
mark the beginning of the Phanerozoic, the fossils just stop.
Charles Darwin himself remarked in 1859 upon the strange and sudden termination of our paleontological
lifeline into the past.
The problem of Earth's missing pre-Cambrian life has come to be known as Darwin's dilemma.
How could complex, hard-shelled life have seemingly sprung from nothing 541 million years ago?
Where did all that complexity come from, and why can't we see it?
The answer, we know now, is that we simply didn't know where to look.
Against all possibility, there are impossible fossils lurking in rocks,
from long before the aeon of so-called visible life.
In the northwestern corner of Arizona,
the Colorado River cuts deep through flat layer-cake strata of the Phanerozoic,
carving out one of the most magnificent geological features on Earth,
the Grand Canyon.
And on a cool autumn day at the end of the 19th century,
the chief paleontologist of the U.S. Geological Survey picks his way down the
narrow switchbacking path, descending deeper into the canyon, and deeper into time.
Charles Doolittle Walcott is a self-taught geologist.
He began his paleontological career as no more than a professional fossil-collector,
and yet his eye for something new and special among the ordinary
proves the key to his academic success.
Never having been told what should or should not be geologically possible,
he looks at the world with fresh, unbiased eyes,
seeing things that his contemporaries are want to overlook.
Descending into the cool, shadowy depths of the Grand Canyon,
Walcott spans thousands of years with each downward step,
until, near the chasm's floor, a single stride suddenly transports him
two hundred million years deeper into the past.
He has crossed an unconformity, a sharp boundary in the rocks marked not by gradual deposition,
but by ages of erosion. In this case, two hundred million years of time have been lost.
Walcott was first walking upon familiar Cambrian rocks,
but is now adrift in the Pre-Cambrian, among rocks that are some 750 million years old.
These are the layers he has come to see, and with his collector's eye,
he is quick to assess the geology before him. His attention is soon caught by a strange pattern,
something he has never seen before in rocks of any age.
Seen from the side perpendicular to the rocks' bedded strata,
there are domed, cabbage-like layers,
sometimes broad, sometimes tight and compact, even pointed.
When surfaces parallel to the bedding are exposed,
the tight layers are successively cross-cut to form fine, concentric rings.
Without any comparison, Walcott considers what could have formed these curious structures.
Their layering is much finer than the grains of the surrounding rocks would seem to allow,
and their shapes are not those easily formed by any physical processes he knows.
In his notebook, alongside their sketches,
he posits that they could have been shaped by some kind of ancient life,
although precisely what kind of life he isn't sure.
He gives them a new name, Crypto-Zuon, meaning hidden life,
and reflecting the many questions still surrounding these strange formations.
Many more examples of Crypto-Zuon were subsequently discovered in Pre-Cambrian rocks,
but it wouldn't be until the 1950s, long after Walcott's death,
that this hidden life would be revealed for what it really was.
In several salty bays of Western Australia,
rocky blobs cluster in the tidal shallows,
and ecological analysis revealed these smooth domes to be composed of a layer
upon layer of fine sediment and organic matter.
And in the uppermost layers, photosynthesizing cyanobacteria reach for the sun.
These are stromatolites, multi-layered microbial tower blocks in which only the uppermost levels
are occupied. They grow with geological slowness, driven by the photosynthetic need for the sun.
Tidal waters wash fine sediment over their tops,
and the cyanobacteria must form a new layer on top if they are to survive.
Shaped by tidal ebbs and flows, and the gentle action of waves in the bay,
the layers are molded into individual domes,
cauliflower-like in cross-section, and concentrically ringed when eroded flat.
These living stromatolites are a perfect match for the cryptozouan's
walcott found in the Grand Canyon. And just as the modern domes are formed by life,
so too are their petrified Precambrian twins.
Charles Doolittle Walcott had unwittingly found the first evidence for life before the Phanerozoic.
Proving Darwin's assertion that life did indeed exist in the Precambrian,
and offering a hint as to why it was still hidden to us.
Quite simply, because it was too strange to be believed.
Since the mid-20th century realisation that the Precambrian fossil record does indeed exist,
if only we know where to look, protozoic paleontologists have had to challenge their assumptions
and put aside their biases about where and how some of the earliest forms of life might be preserved.
Now the scales have fallen from our eyes, and the jewels of the Precambrian are revealed.
We may not find bones, or teeth, or even simple shells, but we do find hints and clues of the
life that existed before this mineralised protection.
When the stage was set for this complex life to find its figurative feet.
It may seem an impossible task to preserve a soft, squishy, organic body in the face of
biological recycling, but as dramatolites have shown us, there are certain quirks of rock formation
that allow even microscopic bacteria to be preserved throughout eons.
In this case, sufficiently large communities of tiny organic organisms are able to exert
enough influence on their local environment, that the normal processes of rock formation
