That's what we're going to claim about the gluon-C when they look at the proton in very, very high resolution.
When we're getting closer and closer to reality, know what you're seeing is entirely sampling error.
So doesn't that gluon-C, I've never heard the expression before,
but doesn't that gluon-C end up looking like something that's a continuum with very, that's almost like it has,
like in that sea there are waves that are of much lower frequency, that connects it right back up to the top level?
I think so.
I think that there's all sorts of weird structures that you can see and really unusual,
I forgot what they call these kinds of weird dynamics that they have down at that level, but there are some unusual dynamics.
So it's not just noise, it's noise with some kind of unusual coherence to it,
which is perhaps what you would expect when this is a sampling from something deeper that does have coherence.
Yeah.
A sampling error on something deeper.
That's like asking the tiny vibrations between the bow and the string are just heat,
they're just a sea of incoherent microscopic influences.
So how come then, when you add them all up, they become this fundamental, right?
So they weren't tiny incoherent things, they actually, they had structure to them,
but in some ways they wouldn't create the stick-slip dynamics of the particular structure, right?
That's right.
They can't be, they would all cancel out if they didn't have any structure to them.
That's right.
So if this is a sampling of a pre-existing kernel, there is a structure to that kernel,
which is going to effective, as you get more and more sampling,
you'll begin to see the harmonic structure of the underlying kernel.
Absolutely.
By the way, we have money to hire one or two postdocs who have recent PhDs in algebraic geometry
and know these positive geometries.
So we're about to put the word up, but if you know any bright young new PhDs in mathematics who know algebraic geometry,
that's not the kind of PhD I know I can barely do matrix multiplication myself.
But if I come across any, I'll let you know.
Yes.
Thank you.
If, what would be the reverse, if you have, if you had people that could do that kind of maths,
but understood the biology would want them to stay with you and do that kind of maths,
it's the, for me, it's the, I would like to explore those relationships between shape and form of the Clifford algebra,
the geometric algebra, the lambda calculus, you know, universal programming language and the adaptive processes.
So processes of adaptation and learning that happens spontaneously as a system deforms under stress.
So that's the sort of the calculus that I would like to be able to relate.
Absolutely.
Well, absolutely.
And me too.
I'm very interested in going there one step at a time, but, but absolutely we would like to like to do that.
The lambda calculus is quite fun.
When I was a graduate student at MIT, we had these list machines.
And of course, LISP is basically lambda calculus.
There's a programming language based on lambda.
So I wrote my entire dissertation programs in the lambda calculus on the list machine, which was keeping track of all the parentheses was back then, quite a sure.
Does that make sense to you that, you know, that when you think about, well, like, what's the difference between the program and the data in lambda calculus is just which side of the application that you write it on, right?
So when one song meets another song, if an observer takes the frame of reference of song A, then song A is a program that is operating on song B.
But if the observer takes the frame of reference of song B, then song B is the program that is operating on song A.
That's right.
So what I like taking the frame of reference of is just turning around to phase lock the components that are in common between the observer and song A, or turning around to phase lock with the components which are in common with song B.
That's right.
I agree.
One way to put it is how you decide to attend to the whole system.
Which way are you attending to it?
One way to think about this trace process is it's an attention.
So when I trace on these three states, I mean, what I'm doing is just I just want to attend to those three states.
So I'm just attending to it.
So it's really another way of thinking about this is it's there is this one universal consciousness in some sense the whole and just different ways of attending to aspects of it.
Yeah.
That's the way of thinking about this and you see different music when you look at it from different points of attention.
Fantastic.
A lot of fun.
Fantastic.
I'm so enthused.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It was very, very fun.
I was the synergy was surprisingly good between the ideas.
So I'm grateful.
And Michael will have us talk again.
When he left the recording stopped, but I pressed record again.
So we might be able to splice together if we need to.
That would be good.
Because I think this, this conversation might be one that would a lot of people be interested in.
Cool.
Cool.
Okay.
I'll meet you.
You too.
