But it also supports intersectionality since the cultural field are built and maintained
by cultural institutions. Orientation, class, abilities, neurotypicality, race, age,
the fields of affordances culturally offered to individuals are dependent on all these factors.
There isn't such thing as men or women because the affordances that an individual can perceive
in a situation are intersectional. So we saw that gender is normative.
Normative, it is normative in the first instance.
So the disruption of the smooth flow of action may be met with bemusement when an
agent chooses not to be normative or cannot be normative. For a variety of reasons, individuals
and also governments and other institutions may attempt to limit or ban some of these
disruptions. Gender scripts or the failure of an expectation, if they produce the failure
of an expectation associated with a gender cultural affordance field may disrupt this flow
and it may be met from anything, from bemusement, to violence, to legislation. Finally,
a lot of people have vested a large resources into policing gender norms.
It's a situation that may call for political actions when genders or groups unjustly affected by
the policing and violence must redress the wrongs. This brings us to the last aspect of gender,
our count on reliance, that is the fact that gender is bound with justice issues.
Gendered cultural affordance landscape is built and maintained by a culture's institution.
It opens the question of distributive justice. Are affordances distributed equitably in a given
gendered society or do they favor one gender over another? If they are not, what actions are
available to ensure an equitable distribution of the field of affordances? That's the question
I leave you with today. So I wish to thank Inesipolito who really helped us with this paper and
Maxwell Ramstead with whom we've had lengthy conversations to bring about these thoughts.
Thank you, Mal. All right, well, we have time for maybe one question. Does someone want to
ask a question? Or maybe you can take time to form a little cue in front of me. I mean,
we have time for at least one question. Sergio, I saw you move around. Is that another question?
If no one has a question, I have a question. What is the appealing to...
I mean, I really love the presentation. I'm in broad agreement with you. But specifically,
what do you think appealing to the ecological and inactive framework over and above just vanilla
active inference brings to the table? I think it's a translational account. A lot of fields use
the inactive framework. They understand it. There are some categories which can be brought to bear
in other fields. And I think they naturally work with some parts of active inference. So
without necessarily understanding how to unfold the formalism, you can still move through these
ideas, and then you can unfold the formalism. But I would discourage people who do not understand
the formalism from necessarily directly engaging with active inference, or they will get lost in
the weeds. Whereas in general, inactivism does not require this formalism in order to have the
right concepts in place. That's the end of my answer, Max. Well, thank you very much. I'll leave the
That's really interesting. I suppose one question, because I can see how this can be useful as well
to have conversations with people about real-world questions. And I was wondering how you might
meet that challenge if someone came back the other way and started saying, there's people
putting scripts out into the world that were influencing people. As well as having the opportunity
because I think also there's a lot of opportunities in cities for people to have, maybe they go to
certain clubs, they can have just a social experience, which then cultivates the chance for
them to play. But then there's also the scripts. I wonder how you sort of balance that, or think
about that. So if I understand this question properly, you're asking about potentially negative
destructive scripts. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, and also maybe actors out there in the world who
want to cast a negative light on the ability for people to have more gender fluidity. And so
they might use that from another direction and say that the scripts have been manipulative.
So how would you answer that, or try to negate that, or talk about that?
Well, I mean, the argument I'm making can lead directly to that conclusion
without too much work, right? So it's this idea that if you are different,
you cause prediction error to other people. And I mean, we can go back to Mark's point about
error digestion, right? It's should we be in a world which never promotes any error at all,
that creates potentially an epistemically weak field. And it also can lead us to a brittle
world where we may all be super coordinated, we may be coordinated into a ditch, or be unable to
eventually get out of a potential local minimum. So that's, I guess, my answer. Another point is
the reason the script came about is because one of the reasons the script might have come about,
I don't want to be too prescriptive here, is that the people were already not quite
finding themselves in the scripts that were proposed to them. They couldn't find exactly
what their reality necessitated in order to make sense to them and to people they chose
to interact with properly because they kept giving these errors by trying to perform something
which wasn't really them. This is something that we find a lot in experiences of a trans identity
where they really do try for a while. Like a lot of people try to perform and in fact overperform
masculinity. I mean, it just, it feels, it feels wrong. It doesn't explain their reality. And
sometimes they kind of just perform it a little wrong. Like this is, they have to like kind of
learn it extra hard. So it's, it's something we also find in autism, right? This idea of
masking where you have to perform some social expectation about yourself, which is taking
a lot of work and you might not be doing quite right. So anyway, I think, I think it's into this
turn. So I'm going to, I'm going to get off the stage.
