that gives psychological meaning to the gender pronouns his and her.
And the third is linked to one of the functions attributed to gender in a gendered society,
that is the communication of a social identity through identifiable actions.
Now, actions associated with either of these conceptual clusters, either here being an
inappropriate term, there could be more than two, will be afforded to agents embodying either
of gendered poles and refuse to others.
This is not to say that people are necessarily directly stopped from acting or physically
cannot perform an action, it's more subtle than that.
Although it used to be more clearly segregated in periods where gendered binaries held more
sway and can still be the sway in certain areas where they do.
To this day, certain kinds of transgressions are physically punished by other kind members
of society.
The interaction of the individual will be constrained by the social environment based
on its reading of the individual, think back to the bathroom, how many incidents of trans
women trying to go to the bathroom have we heard on the news.
Some constraints will be more about limiting the very appearance of an affordance in a
segregated field.
Again, if you think of the bathroom, the physical landscape of a woman in a man's bathroom
are very different and in fact many women have never seen what the man's bathroom
affords or would afford.
This is socially signalling that the enactment of the affordances frowned upon and sometimes
other members of society take it upon themselves to make that signal clear.
So punishments can vary from overt aggression to ostracization.
They have a basis in a culturally determined sense of complementarity if you want to read
more about this, read Jackson 2006.
This is a structure that upholds the heteronormative framework.
In that cultural frame, the sense of complementarity between men and women justifies that they
need each other and are naturally drawn to each other.
Now the issue here is that cultural scripts are fluid.
New scripts can quickly replace old ones and scripts can form new branches.
We can identify several sources to this fluidity, one being the polysemi of the fields of affordances
which we will discuss a little bit later, and the fact that fields of affordances can
be very quickly changed, cultural, much faster than reprogramming neurologically encoded sequences
of actions.
Hence changing a script can simply mean making one affordance in a field more salient than
before.
This can be brought about by learning to focus attention on one aspect of the environment
or circuiting more often to it as opposed to another.
It can also be brought about by a heavy in connection or assimilation between several
concepts to go back to the weak script concept.
And concepts can break down through accommodation.
On the predictive inactive ecological account, cultural scripts are loosely coupled condiff
structures that can be decoupled from their original script and recoupled into other scripts
as the environment demands.
This is a feature we can call porosity.
This can be done because mastery of sensory motor affordance loop sits at a lower hierarchical
level that learns faster than the higher levels where the full temporal and spatial dimension
of the scripts are integrated.
As a result, cultural scripts are much more fluid and quickly responsive to environmental
change than natural scripts.
So here, please keep in mind, I'm discussing traditional representations of masculinity
and femininity, not in effect an essential masculinity or femininity.
It's also clearly embedded in my position as a white person, so there are limitations
to the things I'm about to say.
But you can take, for instance, the white middle class women and their association to
sexuality.
In general, it's contradictory.
It's seen as in a negative light because of stigmas around sex work.
Women whose actions afford sexuality are considered socially unacceptable, since they threaten
the social order of patrimony and legacy.
You can read Conrad in 2006.
The sexual unavailability is considered relatively preferable in traditional femininity.
However, women are also objectified, remember the Victoria's Secrets models, and portrayed
as sexual objects of desire for men.
Desirable women are preferable to sexually undesirable women, because the latter just
don't suit the tastes of heterosexual men who generally hold more status in the group.
This places women in the ambiguous position of only being able to receive sexual attention
but not to offer it, passively affording sexuality but denied actions that afford it.
It is effectively a passive position.
In contrast, white middle class men are considered better prototypes of their category if they
can engage successfully in sexual conquest.
This is an active position.
You can look at Buss in 1990.
This dichotomy entails a sort of natural sequencing, where performing masculinity entails acting
on, initiating and pursuing sexuality, whereas performing femininity entails receiving and
resisting affordances.
The asymmetric and complementary valence of the categories assigned to men and women
directly impact the logical sequencing between the category that become deployed into temporarily
nested social scripts.
These positions, based on categories to enact and associations to avoid, as well as their
sequencing, create identifiable roles for agents to embody.
Now, derogating from a role, as we mentioned before, is risking to be socially unintelligible
and thus unpredictable, affording the wrong actions gender-wise.
This lack of predictability can be bothersome for other agents for a host of reasons, including
the generation of prediction errors, the breakdown of cultural sensory motor loops, and the social
threats to hierarchy and functioning.
You can look to Crane in 2018.
Now, certain individuals or group clearly have more to gain from the social roles being
maintained.
Look to Pease in 2013 or Harding in 2009.
Individuals whose valence is high will probably benefit more from a given system being upheld
and may be more active in trying to maintain this social order, again, Cray Holland and
Russell in 2017 or Flood in Pease in 2005.
It is even possible that people who highly benefit from that system may not even perceive
the issues it presents for other agents because their perceptual field is made of their own
affordances defined by the scripts they embody.
Now, more recently, though, there have been more drastic changes as gender has taken on
a less binary nature reflected in the myriad new identifications.
It is important to note that non-binary in itself is not new and has existed for a long
time outside the boundaries of Western cultures and even in some subcultures in Western cultures.
Now, scripts can mean different things to different people or even to the same people
in different scenarios.
Given similar fields of affordances, two individuals may respond differently and thus enact different
scripts, or may choose to perform a script differently.
Individuals in this situation may wish to express a role they embody.
In this role will be partly defined by what affordances other agents offer for the completion
of this interaction.
As scripts require interpretation and an environment, a specific perspective, defines how a script
will be interpreted, which then leads to the degrees of variance we observe.
Subsequently, the different spaces an agent may be part of requires that they respond
appropriately to the group's expectations, which will differ from group to group.
Through performance, this identity is made manifest as it is understood by the individual
and constrained by the group.
There is a sense of agency in the negotiation of what one might wish to express to the external
world.
For instance, wishing to be seen as one identity marker over another may mean emphasizing one
script and limiting the expression of another, to think of women in STEM in general have
to de-emphasize their femininity and emphasize their role of developer, because that is what
they wish to be seen as and not less than.
While not all of these negotiations are fully conscious, some are.
Agency in this regard manifests over layers of consciousness and constraining choices.
Agency over scripts is thus a source of fluidity.
However, the social binary being as it is, it may not be sufficient to find overlap within
the available service.
There may not be overlap that is intelligible or leads to acceptable social consequences
for the individual.
In that case, the individual may have to create diverging scripts offering a new pathway.
This new pathway may require a community to become legible, stemming from populations
for which the current framework simply does not work to account for their experience of
reality.
In turn, new identities emerge and become clusters with their own scripts, legible by more than
the community they stemmed from.
The very concept of discrete category, binary genders, may be challenged by this polysemi
rooted at the heart of the complexity of an individual's specific position.
Clusters of associations can arise in social settings due to stable intersections, for
instance.
The condition for cultural change is that it can be picked up by other agents, thereby
gain social communicability.
Sub-communities can easily form and gather in urban settings because the density is higher
and the probability of similar people finding each other follows.
This promotes expansion of the script clusters for individuals exposed to this variety, in
a context where this overlap happens for any given individual, associations to gender roles
become larger.
All these variations have vastly contributed to the expansion of the masculine and feminine
clusters of scripts, to the point where they are not clearly separate anymore in some areas
of subcultures where more personal freedom is afforded.
Notice just the fact that I myself am speaking to you.
This is a large departure from 60 years ago.
In this way, the concepts are not segregated anymore and the associations between the categories
I have expanded to largely overlap.
They may not allow for easy segregation of the gendered patterns and ultimately for predictability.
New clusters and categories have developed into new possible identities.
Previously unavailable identities that were simply unintelligible in terms of gendered
scripts can now be read because they have guarded enough momentum and power to be socially
meaningful.
Similarly, the porosity of gender concept has allowed agents to see themselves not as
segregated and stable anymore, but as fluid and potentially interchangeable.
Unfortunately outside of the communities who can easily read these gendered identifications,
people adopting them may still face resistance, which means their affordance field or complex
interactions of their own intersections and the way in which the environment will react
and constrain them.
Bodying their intersection may also prove troublesome for them in mainstream society
since their bodies will be read with difficulty or brought back into the binary fold as non-prototypical
expressions and therefore lower on the social hierarchy.
So I have some key takeaways for you if you'll stay with me a moment longer.
The first takeaway, genders on the inactive ecological view proposed here are enacted
by individuals as they come to perceive and respond normatively, that is perform the action
afforded to the gendered landscape of affordances built and maintained by their culture.
If you want to read more about this, you can read Foucault and the concept of Dispositif.
In a binary gendered culture, clothing, restroom, seats, school, college classes, offices,
labs, streets, buses, emotional expression, knowledge, afford different things to men and women.
I'll explain the French word later if you want.
In such a culture, individual become men or women as they come to pre-reflectively perceive
the fields of affordances associated with one of the two genders and automatically normatively
respond to them, setting off chains of affordance loops through which a gender is enacted.
As perception and automatic responding are both pre-reflexive, enacting a gender isn't
a matter necessarily of conscious choice, though individuals can apply voluntary consciousness
to resist, modulate, or otherwise modify an automatic response, opening a path towards
non or less normative gender for that culture.
The second takeaway, and please don't take this as a violence towards the concept of
men so much as the idea that men in themselves, the men, the he-men, may not exist.
Gender is embodied since the affordances individuals can perceive depend on their
action capacities, which partly depend on their body.
Biological sex is one part of an individual's anatomy and physiology, and as such affects
its action capacities, enabling and sometimes facilitating others.
But on our view, biological sex links to gender is mediated by action capacities,
which are dependent on the body as a whole and not just on its sexual characteristics.
Biological sex may also be partly responsible for the affordances others perceive in individual,
especially in cultures that choose to amplify some of these differences,
for instance secondary sexual characteristics, or sometimes it has nothing to do with biological
sex like hair length. Since no two bodies and action capacities are alike,
there is no universal men and no universal women.
And since bodies and action capacities change throughout the lifetime, their gender at this
fine grain also changes. Every single body is distinct, similarities abound,
and it creates zones of density and zones of relative sparsity.
Then you can sort of see how it creates a gradient.
Now, gender, in our view, is also situated in a field of affordances individuals can perceive
on the affordance their culture provides. It can be enacted when individuals perceive the
presence of gendered cultural fields, and their inaction is at a given moment situated
where the fields are present. Without gendered fields, there is no gender.
