I have the pleasure and privilege to present the next speaker, who is the main organizer
of this event, my good friend and colleague Mau Al-Bagasai.
Mau is a PhD student in cognitive computing and has a master's in psychology from the
University of Bicham.
Their project concerns the way active inference can help us model epistemic communities and
their presentation is entitled, enacting gender, an inactive ecological account of gender,
and its fluidity.
So I'll pass things over to Mau.
Thanks, Maxwell, and welcome back, everybody.
I hope the break was welcome.
So indeed, that is the title of my presentation.
I wish to shout out to Pierre Poirier, who is the second author on this paper, and to
Ines Cipollito, who has done a significant amount of work on previous versions of the
paper.
So today we discuss how we can cast scripts as affordances.
Specifically, let's ask ourselves a question.
What happens when you want to go to a public bathroom?
You have to engage in socially meaningful scripts.
Now, each niche has its own set of scripts that we're going to highlight.
And if you are alone, you may relax your choice of bathroom.
But if you're not alone, your choice will be negotiated.
So we propose to understand the cultural social scripts in the framework of ecological inactivism,
which integrates aspects of inactivism, notably the importance of dynamical sensory-motor
interaction with the environment, conceived as a field of affordances.
Under this view, scripts-based interpersonal negotiation can be linked to the inactive
neuroscience concept of a cultural niche, understood as a landscape of cultural affordances.
You can read papers such as Ramstad in 2016.
As we will see, affordances are possibilities for action whose perception, based both on
multi-sensorial biological, meaning on the static bodily-skilled capacities, and cultural
cues, meaning practices, hermeneutic resources, norms, constrain which actions are pre-reflectively
felt possible by an individual.
In an industrialized urban setting, for instance, most people feel pre-reflectively that dark
rooms can be lit, a switch somewhere affords lighting, firefighters can be called and should
be there for a fire emergency, phones afford calling 911, and social interactions with
strangers can be cut off at will, giving a few polite niceties.
That conversation affords control over social interactions.
Now things may go wrong.
To be sure, the switch may be broken, the 911 service may be offline, or someone may fail
to recognize or ignore the polite niceties of conversation.
Following Zahavi and Gallagher in 2008, we understand pre-reflective consciousness as
an implicit and first order as opposed to explicit and high order awareness we have
before we reflect on our experience.
This is how, ecologically, the industrialized urban setting is pre-reflectively felt by
most.
As they act in a given situation, individuals enact a subset of their landscape of affordances
as the situation's field of affordances.
You can find work on by Brunberg and Reedveld in 2014 at Kirchhoff and Kiberstein in 2019.
A situation's field of affordance is the pre-reflectively felt structure of possible actions in that situation.
No two agents enact the same field of affordances in any given situation, since fields of affordances
depend on multisensorial, biological, and cultural cues.
No two agents have identical bodies, homeostatically, kinesthetically, and no two cultures, which
can be as finely individuated as the individual, offer identical norms and practices.
Since humans share biological and cultural commonalities at various spatial and temple
scales, however, their collective fields of affordances in a given situation thus form
a space in which there is structure at multiple temporal and spatial scales.
We call this structure, which would be important to understand the possible constraints on
gender fluidity, the fields of affordance space.
Any action undertaken by a specific human agent in a given situation will bring forth
a new field of affordances, belonging to a new field of affordance space, opening new
action possibilities, and so on.
Now gender has its own subset of scripts.
Specifically, they are the action of affordance loops constrained by the individual's culturally
shaped biological body, the way culturally shaped biological bodies are perceived by
others, the cultural norm that shape these bodies, brains, and behaviors, and the political
forces that shape these norms.
Structured possibilities reflect the structure in the fields of affordance space, individuality,
but also commonalities at multiple temporal and spatial scales.
So the goal of this presentation is going to be to propose that gender is becoming less
rigid as a function of the increase in available scripts for all individuals.
For an instant, we're going to focus on the inactive framework, as I believe this is a
topic of interest, and in our view is not incompatible with the FPP whatsoever.
The inactive framework proposes that cognitive properties are on a continuum with biological
properties, the properties that give rise to and maintain life.
This aligns with the feminist embodied conception of cognition, which understands normative
life to be felt materially as we interact with the world, but also to be shaped by its
materiality.
By anchoring cognition to life, inactivism adopts an inherently embodied conception
of cognition.
Life is understood as the self-organization and homeostatic maintenance of chemical reactions,
combination they call, as you all know, auto-polyasis.
The most basic way for self-organized autocatalytic set of chemical reactions to achieve homeostasis
is to build and maintain a semi-permeable membrane to enclose itself in, making it able
to weather punctual change in its milieu.
By doing so, the autocatalytic set of reactions takes its first step in the journey of variational
free energy minimization.
It makes viable internal states more probable than less conducive to self-preservation states.
For a living organism, variational free energy is an information-theoretic quantity that
is an upper bound on the surprise of a set of states sampled from its internal or external
environment, given a generative model of the causes of the sample.
The free energy principle, and I'm supposed to quote Friston, but I believe this goes
without saying, states that any adaptive living organism resists disorganization by minimizing
its free energy.
All adaptive living organisms are thus posited to possess a generative model of their environment.
A more sophisticated way for an organism to preserve homeostasis and minimize surprise
is to be sensitive to changes in conditions inside and outside its membrane and to react
appropriately to these changes, notably by sensing and reacting to these changes, creating
dynamical action perception loops between organisms and internal or external environment.
Protective maintenance of homeostasis by action perception loops gives homeostatic value
to the environment.
Some of its states afford the organism motor actions that preserve homeostasis, and some
don't.
It gives a basic kind of meaning to the world, and if you want to read more about this, you
can reach into DiPaolo in 2018 or Thompson in 2007.
We come to this point, perceptual and action capabilities are evolved to detect and react
to those conditions in the world that are beneficial for maintaining self-organization
and to those conditions that are detrimental to it, and the organism will therefore be
attracted to the conditions that are beneficial and repulsed by those who are not.
In ecological psychology, objects that afford actions to an organism are called affordances.
Affordances are possibilities for action that the organism's environment supplies or affords
to those that can perform the afforded action.
Organisms are able to perform actions to the extent they possess the necessary body configuration,
physiology, and skills, and this is an important point.
Since body configuration, physiology, and skills change throughout the organism's lifespan,
the affordances it finds in a given environment change as well.
Affordances are thus time-relative.
For a given organism, a set of affordances supplied by its environment at a given time
is determined by the content of its environment at that time as well as its configurations,
physiology, and skills.
The set of affordances an individual of a type of organism has at a given point is called
the individual's umwelte, and I will refer you back to Itzel and Melina's conference
yesterday.
So we can also call this its ecological niche.
The space of affordances currently available to an organism is called the organism's affordance
landscape, and so to the organism able to perceive them, affordances meaningfully structure
the environment, making it positively value certain aspects and negatively value others.
Given an affordance landscape, the free energy minimizing organism will opt for the action,
the affordance, which minimizes free energy, which will bring about new affordance landscape,
new free energy minimizing action, and a new affordance, and so on.
This can apply to any structure which self-organizes.
We are thinking cells, humans, but we can also think social groups as you've seen this
morning with Blue, Danielle, and Servile's presentation.
To stay in the most likely set of states thus, to review, agents have to determine the causal
pathways which lead them from the environment.
Reacting appropriately to the environment creates action perception loops, and this is what
gives meaning to the environment.
Meaning is encapsulated in affordances, the fit between an individual and their environment
is made clear in their grip on their affordances, but most likely affordance is the one which
limits free energy, bringing about a new state of the world and thus a new affordance loop.
So now let's consider generative models at higher levels.
They encode the probability distribution of affordances.
And because of the hierarchical nature of generative models, these probability distribution
of affordances are arranged in a nested hierarchy.
Restaurants afford many actions, eating, spending money, sitting, being people, going to the
restroom, that themselves are nested as series of affordances for actions.
Some affordances are cultural embedded in the niche.
The existence of a cultural affordance opens the possibility for the presence of censoring
motor cultural affordance loops.
Let's focus on a script for a moment.
Using a paper with Maxwell and Axel Constan and Carl Friston, we have reviewed the general
definitions of scripts, but also given our own definition in terms of weak and strong
scripts.
A weak script is a cluster of concepts which are generally brought together but do not necessarily
have a strong sequencing.
They define the landscape within which the sequencing can happen.
A strong script is a form of knowledge structure about the sequence of events, the sequence
of the concepts, to be produced in a given setting.
This knowledge is thought to be encoded in a memory structure that develops as individuals
are exposed to multiple varied instances of the setting.
But cognitive science traditionally constitutes scripts as internally memorized sequences
of actions, which is representationally and computationally relatively costly and sometimes
even brittle.
Inactive ecological cognitive science offloads some of those representations and computations
to the environment.
One does bring a representation of the script, but by becoming sensitive to the fields of
affordances an environment presents and by becoming skillful at producing the actions
they are by afforded.
On the active inference view adopted here, one becomes sensitive to an affordance in
a field when one's generative model predicts the affordance when it is about to become
present.
Acting upon the action possibilities offered by the environment normally changes the field
of affordances, either because it's laws, structures, mechanisms make it so, or because
other humans who will normally respond in a culturally nor in fashion to the field will
thus change the field.
This new field of affordances may lead to new actions and new fields and so on.
As one explores and learns, the fields expand.
So why is this important for us?
Well, socially groups afford different action possibilities to individuals who perform actions
who conform better to their norms.
If you look at the pictures above, these people generally represent a socially embedded ideal.
Resources are thus afforded to the people who conform to the group norms when you are
a Victoria's Secret model, things tend to go relatively well for you in life.
Certain group dynamics afford different things to different statuses of their members, regardless
of their conformity to group norms.
Certain groups thus pre-define a member status which grants more power and thus more affordances
over some resources than others.
This is where we can start seeing how the concept of patriarchy may become relevant
to our ideas.
Most cultures produce and maintain agender scripts, however, most being the keyword here,
some cultures are more complex than this.
And it has large-scale ramifications on social processes.
Our structured have gendered ramifications, and institutions are fashioned according to
gendered norms and prescriptions.
By setting up distinctive affordance landscape for human males and females specifically, by
contrasting masculine to feminine, each pole has its own segregated set of conceptual associations.
There are three major areas which segregate gendered experience.
The first is the culturally gendered body that superposes itself on the individual sexed
male-female intersex body, or modifying its biological function to some extent, if you
want to read more about this, read Fustostel in 2000.
The second is a culturally gendered narrative, which once entrenched in an individual's narrative
consciousness forms the basis for the individual's psychological self, an internalized gender
