Hey, do you like this, this thing? Oh, you know, I don't think it's for me. You know, if you have,
I mean, depending on your relationship with the person, you could say, if you have a gift receipt,
you should definitely return this. If you don't, maybe you'd like it back to give it to somebody
who might like it more, you know, or whatever. But I mean, there are circumstances, you know,
whatever, those are so hard to do. They are. But I do find, so you mentioned, what do I get?
What do I say when someone asks me if they look fat in this dress? I don't get asked that particular
question a lot, but I do have people reach out to me once in a while and say, look, I'm calling you
because I know that you'll be honest with me. And they'll start the conversation like that.
And I find that rewarding. And then so then they know that I have a reputation at least with them
for not telling them just what they want to hear. Did you ever watch American Idol? No.
Okay. American Idol had like three judges, people would come in and sing,
and then the judges would rate them on the singing, basically. Eventually, later on,
it was like voting for across America. But the interesting part was with the judges.
I feel like with the premise, I did live in the United States. Okay, great. And there would always
be, the three judges, I, for the first few seasons were Simon Cowell, Paula Abdul, and
God, what was the other guy, Randy? And the person you, whose opinion you respect is Simon.
Because you know, when you go up there and sing, Paula will always say, that was fantastic. You
were great. I loved it. And Randy will always be like, yeah, you know, at worst you'll say like,
that was all right. Could use some work. But he, and sometimes you'll say that's great.
But he'll never say that was bad. Simon will be like, fuck you. That was awful. You hurt my
ears. Get out of this room. And he will do that all the time. And so whenever like, I would
seek approval from someone, it would always be the Simon Cowell types. Like, I know you're going
to tell me it's good, whether it's good or not. So I don't care about your opinion. The guy who
tells you you suck, he's the person that I actually want to hear that was fantastic from, because
that means he actually thought it was fantastic. Right. And so I bet when you're searching proof
readers for the stuff you write, you want somebody who has a reputation of being really critical.
Yeah, exactly. And that's because the words carry more weight. And I think that that's one
of the benefits of not. But also, I think Simon wasn't honest. He exaggerated his negativity.
He probably did. It was entertaining. Didn't he have like, I don't watch American Idol,
I don't watch singing shows, I don't watch cooking shows. Didn't he have that, although I don't
watch a lot of this guy, who's that mean chef Hell's Kitchen? I know who you're talking about.
Gordon Ramsay. Isn't he like the Gordon Ramsay of the music industry? Is he Simon?
I don't know. I've never seen any Gordon Ramsay, but he was famous for being an asshole.
Right. At some level, he flanderized himself and got caught up in it. But I think that, yeah,
the general point of what you're making, I think stands, right?
That if you're going to be dishonest, be dishonest in the negative direction.
Just have no friends at all.
Fair enough. Now, I think the real point is that when you have a reputation for honesty, people
can, your words carry more weight than they would otherwise. If you're going to say nice
things no matter what, then people who want the truth aren't going to bother asking you.
So, if I'm not sure if there's anybody, some people's parents will always praise their decisions
no matter what. I'm going to drop out of school and go be a drum circle hippie. Oh, that's great,
sweetheart. You don't want that person's feedback. You want your honest, smart friends feedback
about how dumb of an idea that is. Isn't that always the comedians joke? Whenever
comedian delivers a line that just bombs and one person in the audience laughs, he's like,
thanks, mom. Should we go real quick, hopefully real quick to listen to feedback?
Yeah, sure. Okay, great. All right. So, Matthew Cutler wrote us, ooh, okay, since this is not
public, we got an email from M. He says, they say in episode nine, you started going through the
arguments people use against polyamory. The first argument against polyamory that you brought up
was said to be an argument against polygamy rather than polyamory. To my mind, that and some of the
subsequent arguments were actually arguments against polygyny and by extension, polyandry,
rather than against polygamy or polyamory. I was surprised to hear those arguments used
against polygamy, which in my mind simply refers to a person being married to more than one person
regardless of the genders involved. The glossary on more than two backs up this
gender neutral definition. I'd previously been thinking that one of the goals of some polyamorous
people would probably be to legalize polyamorous marriages and that that would be referred to as
legalizing polygamy. I had expected that there would be a desire among some polyamorous people to
reclaim the term polygamy to simply hold the gender neutral definition despite historical misuse of
the term as a synonym for polygyny. A quick search did bring up a few apparent examples of such
suggestions. What do you think about the idea of reclaiming the term polygamy? And I want your
opinion on this as well. Would you like to start or should I start? Go ahead. Okay, well my personal
opinion is that the word polygamy is so loaded with that history that it's an unreclaimable.
And people think of polygamy, they think of people, old men marrying 14 year old girls and
arranged marriages and just all sorts of horrific abuses. And I do not want that
associated anyway with me. And yes, I mean, maybe technically, that's not necessarily what it entails.
But once you've loaded a word so much, you just, it's not worth the effort it would take to reclaim
it. I think singularity has had a similar sort of thing where it once meant something. And nowadays
just means this crazy thing that sometimes people talk about as a rapture of the nerd sort of thing.
And it's just, it's not worth going through the effort of trying to say, no, this is what we really
mean by it. It's like, okay, fine, use a different word. And I think we have a perfectly good word.
We have polyamorous, which is what everyone uses now. And it doesn't have all that baggage and kind
of has a whole core of good people fighting for it. And so calling it a polyamorous marriage,
I think would be great and doesn't come with all that weight of history on it.
Well, I think there's a way that that could be confusing, because I am in a polyamorous marriage,
but I'm not married to more than one person. Right, because you can't be legally.
Right. If you could be, though, the term polyamorous marriage would still not necessarily
imply that being married to more than one person.
Right. No, it's not supposed to imply being married to only one.
So that's why polygamy would be a different term than it would have a different meaning.
I see, because you're saying a polyamorous marriage could be right, a marriage that we have
nowadays between just two people where they're both polyamorous. Whereas an actual polygamous
marriage would be a legal marriage between three or more people. Or maybe not a legal
marriage, some kind of marriage. But yeah. So I'm just saying that the word polygamy does have
added meaning that is not encapsulated by polyamorous marriage.
I see what you're saying. In those cases, though, I would prefer a term like triad marriage. Those
are often used or anything really other than the word polygamy just because of the baggage that
comes with it. Do you disagree? I mean, I don't like the idea of coming up with more terms,
not the one you suggested, but yeah. As for whether word polygamy is reclaimable or not,
I'm not as sure as you are that it's not, but it might not be.
I mean, I guess any word is eventually possibly reclaimable, but it just seems
not worth the effort. Are we really gaining that much from having a technically correct
definition? Perhaps not. And my take on polygamy for polyamorous people is more that
at least when it comes to legal marriage, maybe abolishing it, it's a better choice than
creating polygamous options. I completely agree with you, but there's always going to be people
who want marriage, I guess. I mean, I am legally married and it does come with legal benefits,
and it also comes with privileges that in ways in which people who are not legally married
are unfairly discriminated against. So I think the ultimate ideal solution would be
if the government got out of the marriage business. So I personally have been wanting to
do a marriages are horrible and should not be a thing episode. Would you be interested in joining
me for this? Gosh. I'm not a lawyer, so I can't talk that much about... Not a lawyer either,
it doesn't stop me from running my mouth. And there are lots of aspects of marriage besides
the legal that I value. I don't know if you're against all of them. This is what we could have
a whole hour long episode about, right? I guess, yeah. I could do my best to defend marriage. I'm
not sure if I'm a defender of marriage or not, but I assume, guessing from how passionate you
sound against it, that I might be slightly... I guess maybe apathy is the right word, like me
with most things. I can weigh in as somebody who's not in the community of polyamory as far as
what I think. Uh-huh. Please do. My at-a-glance perception would be that reclaiming that word
would probably be more trouble, like probably be really difficult and that just from people who
don't run in these circles, polygamy has this, you imagine somebody married to a bunch of children
kind of thing, right? That's basically whenever you hear about it in the news, that's what you hear,
right? Right. So, I mean, trying to rebrand it sounds like trouble or sounds like at least a lot of
work and I wonder if it's worth it, given that there's another word for it. Like, there was,
I mean, it's interesting. I'm not sure if atheism or atheist is as scorned a word or position as it
used to be, but there was a time, I don't know, in the early 2000s, mid-2000s, to try and change the
word to brights. I remember that. Yes. And it never really took off. I think it's a stupid word.
Well, that might have been part of it, right? Because then it has implication that people who
aren't brights are dims and that's not very cool. But then it did just sort of work out where, you
know, it turns out that, at least in my perspective, my social circles, all of them, no one really
hates the word atheist. So, although, I don't know. People basically default to agnostic.
Agnostic is what you say when you're an atheist, but you don't want to... Use that word.
Yeah, exactly. You don't want the baggage that comes around with the atheist.
I actually had somebody for the first time in years ask me, like, are you an atheist?
And I didn't know them that well. That's the first time I've met this person. And I was like,
well, because I didn't want to go with all that baggage. So what I said was,
I remain unconvinced of the truth claims of religion. And that sounds like a fairly innocuous
way of putting it. Because it does have baggage, right? And so I don't know, I don't necessarily...
I'm kind of like in the Neil deGrasse Tyson camp on this. There's a great episode of rationally
speaking where that's Julia Galev's podcast back when she was still doing with Massimo P. Glucci,
where he came on, he actually requested to be on. And he's like, I never talk about religion stuff,
but you two are saying, I want to get your guys' feedback on this. And because he didn't like
the word atheist and he didn't like identifying as one. And I could sort of see where he's coming
from. Was it because of the cultural baggage that he wanted to avoid? Yeah, basically,
kind of like if somebody comes up to you and says, oh, I'm a feminist, I'm an atheist or whatever,
the implication is that someone will say, oh, you believe all these things. And it's like, oh,
no, I don't believe any of those things. This is what I believe. But by putting yourself under
an ist banner, you open the door kind of deliberately for people to assign beliefs to you.
If you open up identifying as a Democrat, people are going to think a whole bunch
of things about you, which may not necessarily be true, but that's what you get for using that
word, right? Yeah. So I think that's what you like to avoid. Yeah. And I sort of, I mean,
so again, having known this person for like two hours, I'm like, I had no idea whether
they were religious or not or where this was going turns out there, they would identify as
atheists as well. But I was like, I wonder why they're asking this. So I'm going to think about
my answer for a second because I mean, this is kind of an amicable evening. I don't want to get
into like an argument with somebody. But yeah, I don't know if if I dislike the word, I do like
the idea of, I mean, so Tyson, Neil deGrasse Tyson says, the only ist I am is a scientist.
And that's cute and quippy and it works for him. But I mean, I also like to say I'm an
aspiring rationalist and that ends an ist too. And that has some connotations. So like, I think
those are connotations you're mostly okay with embracing. And also, I think that's a little bit
not is a little bit dodging some things by saying that because there are other other
categories which don't have the letters, IST at the end, which I'm, I'm pretty sure he does
claim for himself, but he can get off the hook because it doesn't have ist.
Can you think of an example? Well, like, so I'm not not entirely sure about this one, but I
thought I saw I'm wearing a wedding ring. Yeah, he's married. And so that like, that's a social
category where that people wear as a like a badge on themselves. And almost call him a monogamous.
No, we don't know that he is monogamous just because he wears a wedding ring. That's true.
But he's one of those, right? And I'm, I could be thinking of someone else that I saw the ring
on. Like, I know he's married, but I don't know if he wears it the ring, but anyway, I think he does.
But yeah, I mean, that's, that's, that's fair. And I think I'm not sure what his position on that
would be, but I feel like there's probably less baggage associated with that that he'd be uncomfortable
identifying with, or at least the most people would be assuming that they're, you know, okay,
portraying themselves as a married person, but not necessarily. Right. So, so then like, he's okay
with the, the implications of certain things, but he's going to say like, the only one that I claim
is a scientist, but there are definitely other ones that he claims more, maybe more subtly or,
you know, maybe the one who wants explicitly like labeled to him. Yeah. And I don't know enough about
his position exactly to defend it, but I could imagine saying something like the only one, the
only one I'm going to call myself is this, you know, and the only one I'm going to answer to is
scientist. So I can see that. But what was I going to say? Oh yeah. But I also feel like maybe monogamist
for some hypothetical person, probably Neil deGrasse Tyson, probably is,
carries less distasteful baggage than atheist for him and for people that, you know, he interacts
with. So that, that might be something like that. So to bring this back to the, the, the
comic just question, I feel like trying to save polygamy sounds like a whole bag of worms that
are can of worms that distort worms and cans of bags, a whole Tupperware container full of worms.
And it almost seems like what's the point. And then to, since there are active polygamous of
the kind that no one likes, you, if you rescued the word for a, a position or a, what do you call
it, a societal standpoint that you favor, you would also be saving it for the people that you
don't like. So did they cover that at all? Cause that sounds like an obvious implication that
is worth considering. No, that was, that was, I didn't think of that either. So props to you,
man. That was an awesome point. Well, maybe that could be helpful because if you make that word,
strip the baggage and make it just purely, it's denotation and then the connotations,
then you are kind of incentivizing people, including yourself to come up with a word that is specific
to those people who like forced marriage people. Maybe I would say like people who,
who use marriage and forced marriage to gain, to oppress, repress young people. I don't know.
You would have to define it. It would be like, it'd be almost like rationalist taboo where you
would say like, you know, we're not going to use polygamy in, with all these connotations anymore.
So now we have to come up with the real word for what those people are doing.
Right. And I'd be more in favor of that, but that sounds like a different challenge than
trying to say the word polygamy, right? Cause yeah, then, then if, if say you wanted to say
polygamy for people who were in tight polyamorous relationships, however, if they wanted to define
themselves, you know, I was like, yes, I'm married to three people. Therefore, I'm polygamous. Well,
then to anybody who all they knew about you was that you're polygamous, they'd be like, oh my god,
you know, you had, you know, four 12 year olds married to you when you were 35 or whatever.
Right. So I mean, it would be funny if it wasn't so horrifying, but I really do wish people would
not do that with words, just assign all sorts of things to them that they don't necessarily mean,
and then use it as a catch all way to club someone.
You're describing the problem with words. Like, no, this is, this is the problem with words in
general, right? Like, and that's the whole point, like polygamy or polyamory are just a few syllables,
and it contains a very long message. But the point is, is like, Hey, when we get everyone to
agree on the message, then we can save ourselves, you know, 30 seconds every time we use the word.
So I mean, but then you end up fighting about word definitions, which is a pain in the ass,
like the fighting about the word feminist, which used to be only basically a good thing. And anyone
