something like that. Beautiful answer. And I, well, I told Inyash, like, I don't even know if
that's true. I, and looking at myself, I have no idea if I believe that or not. But I, what I did
there was I looked for an answer. What do they want to hear? And so I don't know, I guess that
counts as a lie. But I don't, again, I'm not sure if that they, but they know what the truth is.
So like, they're not looking for the truth. They're looking for, and I'm not sure if I'm
trying to bullshit myself to make myself okay with this lie. I'm not convinced that they would have
been happy with, I'm ready to do pretty much anything you guys are willing to pay me for.
Like that's, that's what made me interested. Right?
I sometimes kind of wonder what would happen if you were to answer truthfully on those sorts
of things. You wouldn't get called back. You don't think?
I think the key is they want you to be professional enough to do your job and human enough to work
with, right? Okay. And if you're, if you're that level of radical honest, you're not human enough
to let them think you'll be comfortable enough working in that environment.
I think there are other motivations behind asking that question, which could also help you to craft
an answer that is less of a lie. For instance, if I was going to ask that question to someone that
I wanted to hire, I would want to know if they had researched like my company and what they
actually thought, like what's their opinion about the way we do things or do you even know
the way we do things?
Yeah, you bet. And those are other good answers too. And I think the thing is about the answer
that I gave in this example, in this example, I think I actually do believe that I happen to
also like other things about like working like as a cog in a machine where like I'm one of like
40 people. I think I actually honestly like that too. So they're not asking me, why would you pick
us over everybody else? They're asking me, why would you pick us in general? I'm like, oh,
these are the reasons. I'm not going to list all the reasons why I wouldn't pick you guys.
I'll list all the reasons why I would. I think that's an honest answer.
I prefer working for a large company because you can kind of blend in in the background and
get lost in the machine, right? That may not be the best answer.
I am not passionate about accounting and I'm here to collect my paycheck and I hope I don't
draw attention. No one will notice if I spend 10 hours a week on Reddit.
But I mean, I mean, the real answer, you know, I guess this is sort of a field, but the general
thing is that you can give answers that are honest, but not like the, you know, the complete
package, right? Like you said, you know, your boss comes around and asks how you are. You don't
describe your morning bowel movement and, you know, your gastrointestinal distress on the
drive to work or something, right? Well, you don't.
So you give them an answer that's, you know, some of it. But so I think one of the kickbacks I get,
which I am surprised that there's a lot of kickback. There's not a lot, but there's some
kickback to like talking about, yes, I'm a big fan of honesty. I think that people lie way more
often than they should. And the average person could go their entire life without lying and
their lives would be better. And so the people that they live with and interact with,
but people, you know, like, that's not true. What about all these? They'll say, well, you know,
by, they'll think that the commitment to honesty means that you have to like be
always forthcoming with everything. And that's not true either. Like I said,
with the, with the X, X murder example, you know, where's your friend, you don't have to answer.
The answer isn't there in the basement. There, the answer is screw off or screw you, right? Or
fuck off, whatever it is. Or, you know, whatever personal information someone asks you, I can't
think of a good question. You know, your boss, your boss asks you, or your, if you're interviewing
again, I'm thinking interviews on my mind, you know, how much did you make at your last job? Oh,
I'm not really, you know, I guess I'm not really comfortable saying it's the same thing as saying,
I don't want this job. So I'm not really sure what you're supposed to do there. But, you know,
so like, because if you say too little, they're going to offer you whatever you made at your last
job and you want to make more. So what is, what is the question? All my personal interactions,
I've never, so I felt really weird doing this before when people would ask me probing questions.
I felt like I always had to answer. And if it was something I wasn't comfortable telling the
true answer about, I would just kind of not say the truth. But I'm not saying the truth. I mean,
I would lie. This was back in the day. But I have found that every single time nowadays, when I
just say, you know, I'm not really comfortable with that, people are like, Oh, okay. And they just
don't care. It seems like after a day, they don't even remember that they asked that. I'm like,
this is awesome. Right. And that's awkward, your first couple of times. And then you get,
you realize that like, oh, and people aren't going to lose their mind if, you know, if you
tell them, I don't want to answer that, or I'm not comfortable.
No, although I understand how there might be internal resistance to saying that kind of thing,
because there are all these signaling implications of, you know, saying, I don't want to tell you.
Yeah. It feels a lot like defecting in the conversation game.
You know, but I mean, you're also implicitly saying like, we're not close enough for me
to tell you that or something, or that there's a really huge secret which I'm not going to tell you.
Right. So I may have killed one man.
Secret is another thing that comes up in my life. So I've kind of made like the commitment
to honesty, I don't know, a few years ago, and everyone's like committed to being honest, but
like really about, you know, trying to never lie. Yeah. So whatever family drama or friendship
drama where they're like, Oh, you can't tell so and so, but this and then so people know me enough
by now for the most part that they, they can't say they won't try and tell me something and be
like, Oh, you have to lie if you're asked about this because they know I won't. There are times
where, you know, if someone says, I can't think of an example, you know, don't tell this person
that I can't think of a good example, whatever, quit my job or something for whatever reason,
I don't want them to know. And then that person asks me, I can just say, I guess what would I
say in that situation if I'm asked to like, for the most part, these things don't come up. So
like, you're not really called upon to like lie. But if you are, you can just say, you know what,
because in a question that's like binary like that, you're basically giving them the answer
by not answering it. So I think in that situation, in those situations, people that I know by now,
for the most part, don't really want me to keep those kinds of secrets. And it's not like, again,
I'll go tell people, but I would say maybe like, I was asked not to tell you, okay, you know, so
well, how about the not technically a lie option, which is to say, I couldn't say,
I couldn't say sounds like I don't know, but I do know. That's one of those things where it's like,
you could say, but you won't. So like you are lying. But I guess I'm bad at generating
examples as if anyone has one, I could be happy to play along. But I'm struggling to think of a
good example myself. Or you could sometimes you can just distract people in a way you can say,
like, you know, this is the kind of question that you ought to ask a person personally. And maybe
you're out of line for asking, you kind of turn it back on them. Yeah, I found that before too.
I don't think there's even where I do this in situations where I'm not even privy to like
special information. But they could be like, Oh, my God, what do you think about like this relationship
drama? I'm like, you know, if you're a great person, ask about that, your relationship partner.
Even if I knew what they would say, like say, if we had even talked about it, I will say, you
know, who's the best person, the person that you're talking about, that's who you should be talking
to. And that's that's, that's also that's also the truth, right? Yeah, that is the best person
to be talking to not me. So all right, sorry, I got distracted again. Shelly, what are non psychopath
examples of defensible? Well, I kind of want to go back to what you said about the possibility of
violence. Like, I think that there are more situations where violence is a threat than you
may consider. It's not just where you're talking to an individual and that individual is going to be
you up. For instance, there are situations in which if you admitted that you had suicidal thoughts,
you would be put on a cycle or police would come and take you away for your own good.
And I think that it may be reasonable for a person to even if asked directly, like,
do you have any suicidal thoughts to say no? Because there are a number of people who constantly
have suicidal thoughts, but at the same time, we're not suicidal. Yeah, I guess to find suicidal
thoughts. But I mean, so and I'm not I'm not being flippant. Not at immediate risk. Anyway, so I
mean, that's that's what I'd say to my psychiatrist or my psychologist. If I was talking with one,
I would say, by my own honest best appraisal, I'm not an immediate risk for self harm. And even
even if I'm having and if that person would be trusted to accept that, then I would hope
that I would trust my but that's true. If you feel like you can't trust the person you're talking
with or like. Yeah, and that happens with a lot in a lot of situations, especially I don't know
teenagers living at home with parents who would send them off to something that the parents think
is good for them, but would could be devastating to those ex gay camps. Yeah, exactly. That's true.
And I do want to emphasize that I don't think these cover the vast majority of lies that people
tell. I think for the most most part, people are telling what they consider to be like little
white lies. You know, oh, yeah, I can't make it to dinner party because I'm stuck in, you know,
I'm stuck 60 miles away in traffic when in fact they're at home and they just don't want to go.
I guess what you're saying, it's kind of a privilege to be able to tell the truth sometimes.
And it is. Well, if you're living in a situation where someone has a lot of control over your life,
over what resources you have access to, even if you do hold certain opinions or values, you may
have to lie about what they actually are, they'll take those away. And the one thing that these
all have in common and the third one that I just thought of, and the fourth one I thought of,
it's like other people you might lie to in similar examples are like the police or your
boss about something or other, right? But the thing that these all have in common is that the
person you're lying to has a disproportionate compared to your power over them, they have
more power over you than you do over them. And so if the police pulls you over and asks, you know,
do you have any drugs in the car? And if you think they'll believe me if I say no, but if I say yes,
I'm definitely going to jail, you'll say no. But I mean, that's just one of the bummers of having
bad laws, right? That it puts otherwise good people, it forces otherwise good people to be dishonest.
And the example of talking to, like, if you're talking to your parents and you're afraid that
they're going to do bad things to you, that's almost, you're right, that is a little dialed down
from like, being at risk of, you know, literally getting killed with an axe or something. But
that's at the risk of coming to self, or coming to living their life with us.
What if they were just withdraw college funding from you? Because that's certainly not violent
necessarily, it's not life threatening, it's people could argue, well, it's their money,
they don't want to give you their money to send you off to college, then they don't have to, right?
And I mean, I basically kind of agree with that. But on the other hand, that's, that's,
so it feels like there's almost a social contract that if you have kids and you have enough money
to send them to college, and they can do well in college that you should, right?
So the distinction here, we're running with the example of like, where you have parents who are
okay with a child being gay. And so if they ask you for whatever reason, blank, are you gay?
And because if you say, yes, I'm not going to pay for your college, then you'll say, well,
of course not then. So like, I don't even necessarily gay if you have really, really just
parents, they're like, are you an aspiring rationalist? And you're like, no man, I believe in the big
GZ. That's right. So I think, I mean, in those circumstances, you're kind of saying, well,
what I want to, all right, so I've got a few thoughts, if you don't mind me rambling for a
second, go for it. So one, you're okay throwing an honest relationship out the window for whatever
payoff you're going to get for lying to them. In this case, you're like, you know what,
I'm okay not being open with my parents if it means getting free college.
Right. Basically using them for their college money.
And but at the same time, you're like, well, I don't want to have a relationship with people who,
you know, don't like non believers or gay people or whatever my parents don't like, right?
And so if you're okay with like, if it's okay to take advantage of bad people,
then then you can just do whatever you want to them. So like that's, or at least in the context of,
you know, manipulating them through deceit, I don't know if I'd necessarily buy that whole
chain. There's also the possibility to I mean, it's necessarily okay to take advantage of bad
people. I don't think so either. But that might be what some want to think if they're okay lying
to them in order to keep their college tuition, right? But I mean, then consider too that there's
a breakdown of what could be a very fruitful and important development in the conversation, right?
Like you might just believe your parents would, you know, disown you if they learned you were gay,
when in fact they might, they might have known all along, they might have known all along that
it'd be super supportive. Now granted, you might have a really good idea and you're not going to
take a 5% chance that, you know, somehow they've been hiding their, their super niceness about
this subject their entire lives. But I guess it depends what kind of relationship you want to
have with them. And again, if your parents are close minded bigots against whatever you are
hypothetically, they might not be the kind of people they've known all along, but they are just
okay with keeping everything hidden. And as soon as you come out, they're like, well, fuck you,
you broke the contract. And I mean, so like that's, that depends, like if they're, if they're those
kind of people, there might be the kind of people you're okay not having a real relationship with.
Yeah. But I think mainly I'm against lying when there's a chance for a real relationship.
It feels like a shitty thing to tell someone that you should throw away your future for honesty,
but it feels shitty to tell someone that you should take money from people you don't like,
just because you have moral disagreements with them, right? If it's their money, then it's their
choice whether they spend it on sending you to college or not. But that's also easy for me to
say seeing as I am, you know, not in the college going to age range. This is not a concern for me,
I guess. Yeah, but I mean, like lying to your boss about something that they might find objectionable.
I'm not really sure when like, laws are pretty good in the United States anyway about keeping
those kind of conversations illegal. You know, so like, I do occasionally see job listings where
they're like, and we want, you know, we want applicants with good Christian values and even
straight up ones like we want Christians. I think this must be for private organizations,
not for, you know, public companies, because you're not supposed to be able to do that. So if your
employer asks, in fact, there's actually a reputable, I'm not sure if this is a chain or if it's one
place, but there's a nursing home in my hometown that has some like, they're very good place,
well funded, nicely staffed and well equipped. One of the things they care about is they want
to make sure that you, you know, in their list of like value statements, they have like good
Christian values, just something like that. And it's like the only off-putting thing about them
is that like, oh, they kind of want you to be religious, but they might be able to ask you,
in fact, I know somebody did, did interview with them, they had asked, you know, do you feel like
you personally line up with our value statements? And in that implicitly is, are you a good Christian
person? But it's not explicit. And so you could say, yeah, I feel like I agree.
I have an interesting personal thing that is exactly that.
Well, so there's a lot of markets out there for publishing genre fiction. And for the most part,
they don't care who you are. They're like, send us the story. If it's a good story,
we'll pay you money and we'll publish it. But there's a few that are like, and check this box
if you are one of these minorities. And I check the box for sexual minority and for religious
minority, because I am one of the most hated religious minorities in the country, according to
every survey, at least up to a few years ago, we're more hated than Muslims, atheists. And
under sexual minority, yes, I would say that the polyamory people generally get a lot of flak
from the monogamous out there, like, oh, you're living this immoral lifestyle and how could you?
And so yeah, I always check those. But I know what they're actually asking is, are you Muslim or gay?
And I'm like, no, I'm not those things, but screw you.
By the word of your question, I'm answering honestly.
