like I'm talking the way I've got my microphone is I'm facing towards Yashmore. So I'm not looking
at, so I've tried to adjust because I'm not looking at Shelley that much. And I feel like I'm not
engaging you enough. No, that's cool. I think he's just saying like generally try to not lie.
But if you have to be deceptive, try to maybe not technically lie and downgrade your deception.
Try to be clever about it. Yeah. And, and that the cost of one is definitely less than the cost
of the other. Because one is, is like almost a nuclear option. If you're going to get a reputation
for lying. Right. But also I want to talk about two other posts by Eliezer. Ends don't justify
means among humans and protected for myself, which I think it's maybe right next to it in the sequence.
So the first one talks about how as humans we are running on corrupted hardware. And so our
judgments can't really be trusted. And in the most high stakes and fuzzy hard to judge situations,
you want to have some kind of hard rule that you always follow, even if it seems to you like
it's the wrong rule in that case, because you're running on corrupted hardware, you're probably
going to get it wrong. Should we quickly define corrupted hardware? What is meant by that?
All right, personally. All right. The, the concept that so it kind of draws a distinction between
the mind as being more like software and the body is like the computer, the hardware that our
mind is run on. And if you know, you are dealing with a computer that has been the hardware itself
has been corrupted, someone hostile to you has access to it. You can't really trust any software
that runs on it because no matter how good the software is and how well you've checked it,
there could be something in the hardware where whenever you add these two bits together,
it'll spit out a three instead of a two. There's just no way to get around it. And so you, if you
have to make allowances for knowing that you are dealing with a piece of hardware that has been
corrupted, that it can be wrong in ways that it is impossible to tell what those ways are. And
that's kind of what he means that your body can hijack your thought process in ways that
are invisible to you. And that will look like you are running correctly, even though you are not.
And there's no way for you to tell. And the only way to avoid this is by having some very hard rules
that you will never, ever break, even when it is obvious that you have to break the rule right
now. I think this is kind of where Kant comes, Kant comes from, that he has this rule never,
ever lie, even if it looks like in this one case, I should lie because really there's no reason to
let an axe murderer know that my friend is in the basement. That's the, his argument would be like,
that is your hardware, it has been corrupted, it is lying to you, stick with the rule. I would,
I would assume is what Kant would say if he was around nowadays and a computer programmer.
Well, certainly you can, you can maybe see the seeds of that kind of thinking
in Kant. His, Eliezer's example was that it always feels like you need to overthrow the
current leadership of the tribe for the good of the tribe, because you will all be wiped out if
you keep going down this ruinous path. And then somehow once you're the leader, once you're the
leader, it seems like, why shouldn't I give, you know, special favors to my friends? They supported
me in this fight and it's, it's okay for me to take a few extra riches from the pool because
look at how much I have sacrificed for the good. And, and so he's saying that is your hardware,
basically saying you are not in the most advantageous position in society, kill the people who are,
take their stuff and now spread your genes. So that's the rule, never, ever kill the leadership
and take control of the tribe, even for the good of the tribe. Yeah, because you will trick
yourself into thinking you're being altruistic when probably you're, you're programming evolution
programmed you to have other true motivations. Which is one of the reasons that we say do not
punch fascists if they're just talking to a reporter on the street, right? Small nitpick
with the example, yeah, never kill the, the tribe leader and take the tribe, take ownership of the
tribe yourself because you know, you're unless he's Hitler. Well, I'm wondering what if you're,
what if you're just killing the tribe leader because you think that the tribe leader is
going to ruin the ruin your civilization and you're not saying I'm literally what he's saying is
he's saying don't make a power grab for yourself afterwards as well because that has all those
obviously evolutionary once you're the leader, you get all sorts of evolutionary advantages.
Well, no, I'm saying don't be a leader. If you're just saying, look, I don't even want the leader
and then leave. Well, or like just so this doesn't make it sound like we're talking about contemporary
politics. Harry in method of rationality talks about putting Hermione in charge of the government
that he overthrows because he doesn't want to do it because he doesn't trust himself,
but I'll put Hermione in charge because she's like the most good person out there.
So that's not the same thing. That seems like you're taking cover for the idea that yes,
I know that I'm not equipped that if I want over there, the government, I probably shouldn't be
running it, but I'll put this really nice person in charge. Yeah, that's that may be a good compromise.
Just checking to see if there's any wiggle room there. Yeah, just out of curiosity. There's some
wiggle, especially since like the injection isn't really don't kill the leader. It's don't kill people.
Yes. I'm on board with that, by the way. I realized that I made it sound like I was talking
about politics and I was really just looking to nitpick that example. So we're all on board with
not killing people. Definitely. I guarantee you'll both survive this podcast. Now I'm actually worried.
Now I never want to stop recording.
Because everything I say is a lie.
Well, no, I was going to say we're guaranteed to survive the podcast. And then I'm like, oh,
well, no, we're not, but we're guaranteed to have some evidence left over if we keep recording.
Very well. There was another thing that I looked up some... Oh, did you want to,
what was the second one protected from myself? Oh, or was that the same?
It was kind of along the same lines, but Eleazar did talk about three
reasons why his injection against lying has protected him from himself.
Number one, the honest way often has a simplicity that transgressions lack.
I think that's one of the ones that we teach to children about why they shouldn't lie.
Two, he was stricter with himself and held himself to a higher standard
when he was doing various things that he considered himself ethically obligated to do.
So just the feeling of obligation and of ethical rightness was maybe held him to
a higher standard than the idea that this is going to be practical. And three, the wisdom of history
suggests that the constraints that help you to avoid hurting other people may also stop you from
hurting yourself. So that's just kind of like a general trend, I guess he's noticing in history,
that people do certain things to be nice to others and it ends up working out well for
themselves in general. Seems like a rule about human life in general. Maybe I'm coming from a
very privileged position, but it seems to me that people who are nicer to other people tend to have
better lives. Well, I think that our society has evolved in such a way as to make altruism
beneficial, like we treat people who seem altruistic better. Yeah, I also sort of just
wonder about some people who are dishonest and overly self-interested. There's the real question
asked like, are they as happy as people who aren't like that? And there's all kinds of different
ways to ask that question and to analyze different answers. But it's at least conceivable
that people, I guess to just say bad people, they might have all the money and all the nice
cars or whatever, but are they really as happy as other people? Especially like if you're a
reputation as a liar and everybody around that knows that you're a liar and it's convenient for
you, you can never really forge a real relationship with somebody because they'll never be able to
be reasonably confident that you're being honest with them. And I don't think it's just the
reputation thing. I, having met a couple of people like this in my life, it seems like
they're unhappy and it's their own damn fault and there's no way they can be happy because
they think that everyone else is like this too. There is no one they can trust and it's kind of
sad. Agreed. I don't know, I'm not even sure if you'd have to go as far as a typical mind,
your own dishonesty to be unhappy, but certainly that would lead to unhappiness. Not only if
everyone knows that they can't trust you to be honest with them, but if you don't believe
that they'll be honest with you, then yeah, that makes the very valuable part of human life
of having connections with people impossible. I agree with that. I would also emphasize the fact
that it is specific to human psychology. You can imagine some non-human mind that wouldn't
have this problem. Oh sure. I am talking about us. Yeah. I did want to talk about animals also.
Animals do engage in deceptive behavior. Both deceiving and detecting deception
are things that have evolved kind of in a sort of an arms race against each other.
And this particular study from 2001 gave a bunch of anecdotes about animals doing things that seem
to be designed to deceive. Well, you can't just say that and not give us an anecdote.
There's one about hyenas. These were captive hyenas, I believe, or at least in such a situation
where the researchers could introduce stimuli and see how they're going to respond. So the
researchers put a piece of meat in a particular place before the hyenas got there.
And I guess the hyenas probably expected this kind of thing to happen for now and then.
So the first, only one of them arrived on the scene initially, saw the meat, took it over to the pond,
and dunked it under the water and sat on it. And then the other ones came along.
So this initial guy, he's acting like, well, there's never any meat. And probably you would
think that was a deliberate deception, right? He doesn't want them to know. He's trying to make
them think that there is no meat. What a jerk. I wonder how hyenas get such a bad reputation.
But the other hyenas seem to expect that there should have been something. Maybe they smelled it
or they just are used to the researchers putting stuff out there for them or for some reason. So
they go on a search and they find it under the water. And they take it away from him and
make sure to punish him by not letting him eat any of it at all while the rest of them got to eat it.
So even ethically questionable hyenas have a standard to punish defectors when they're being
dishonest. I couldn't cite this, but I did hear on a podcast recently that apparently,
like a lot of the birds that we think mate for life, you can test the DNA of the offspring and
turns out there's tons of infidelity. But it's great for your genetic fitness for you to find a
better mate, but that mate won't roost with you. You find one that will and this sounds like a
metaphor for life. But that seems like another example where, I mean, with birds, I'm less
convinced that there's something that it's like they're planning this out in the way that hyena
did. But there might be something, I'm wondering what's going through their heads, but there
doesn't have to be anything going through their heads to make this happen. But with the hyena with
that level of deception, it sounds like they definitely were thinking those ones are on their
way. I need to do something about this. It sounds like, oh, there's a body of water nearby. It
sounds like there was something that went into that. Do you have any other examples that sounds
like fun? Well, there are some examples with chimps, but you kind of would expect chimps to be
closer to humans in their ability to model other people's minds and stuff, right? That's not that
surprising. Well, I mean, I guess not. It's still interesting, though. I don't think of animals
as deceptive at all. Are you with me on this? No, I mean, it depends. If you ever, you know,
my parents have two dogs, and I guess they both, they kind of do regular dog stuff, but one blames
the other for making a mess. And you can tell, you might have been with the other one the whole
time, but you've seen gifts online or something of the ruined trash cans all knocked over, and then
a dog just laying, making deliberate rigidness not to make eye contact with you because it knows
that it's in trouble, but you can see other ones where they all seem to implicate the other animal
or something. I'm sure I've seen one where a cat blamed a dog for something. I'll see if I can pull
up a gift. How does one animal blame another animal? I feel like maybe it dragged something into another
room or something. I might have to wait for one of these to come up organic. I don't even know what
to search for. But yeah, I think that they can, they can like, nope, he did it. Maybe I just have
a naive idyllic view of nature because I'm like, animals are wonderful. Why would they lie to
anything, anyone? I wish I could think of a specific example, but I'm pretty sure I've seen
them. I'll see if I can find one. But yeah, so if these abilities evolved, they certainly do have
some kind of perhaps limited usefulness. I mean, I think there's a difference between useful and
commendable though. Like it can be useful to beat someone to death, but I don't think it's a good
thing to do. Yeah, I agree. Like there's, there's, it's begging like a naturalistic fallacy. I mean,
I bet deceivers and perfect psychopaths were did very well evolutionarily, right? Like if you got
away your entire life and had this web of lies crafted to where, you know, you'd, you'd die to
a hero, but in reality, you were some monster that, you know, that, that could work out well for,
for you and, and for your evolutionary fitness. But that's certainly not the kind of thing we
would want to foster right now, right? Maybe it's worth mentioning that when you're closer to someone,
you're actually less able to tell when they're lying than when you're not close to them. Yeah.
That is very worth mentioning. And very disheartening. Yeah. I was lying to me this whole time.
When you were beginning that sentence, I'm like, I'm, I could feel my heart warming. I'm like,
oh, you're going to say the closer you are, the harder it is for someone to lie to you. But no,
the harder it is for you to detect dishonesty. Is it because they know you better so they can
lie to you better or what? Maybe I'm not sure. And it's only one study that I read about. And so
whether it's good study or not, whether it's replicates or not, I don't know. That's a bummer.
That is a bummer. So the, the, the lesson is do not trust the ones you love. The more you love,
the more you love someone, the less you can trust them. The real lesson is don't take life lessons
from Inyash. It's probably, probably halo effect. Maybe I would, I would guess that something like
that is going on. Sure. You could be blinded by how much you love them. Yeah. I wouldn't love them
this much if they were liars. And, you know, therefore, you know, the kind of, you just get
that reverse causality in your brain. Do you practice any general lying that, you know, you
do now? I mean, you don't have to like, obviously, I guess. So what is it that you've never told?
I'm always completely honest. Hold on. So like, I mean, I will, I can't, I don't think I've been
pulled over in the last few years, but like, I use that example, like if I did have drugs in the car,
and they asked me, I would, I would say no. Well, that's just common sense. Well, but I mean, I'm,
it is common sense, but I'm coming from a position of advocating radical honesty, right? So,
I mean, it's tough when you, in that circumstance, it's tough when you have moral objections to the
laws. There, I got pulled into a poll thing where I thought this law is bullshit. So fine, whatever.
I don't, I don't care. I can lie about it. And, and it still kind of sucks. But what are you supposed
to do? Help enforce a law that you have moral objections to?
Right. Or, you know, go to jail for, for decades or something that you believe you didn't do anything
wrong. Yeah. So I mean, all right, let me think of a different example, just to end this on a fun
day, you know, day to day life. Your partner asks, does this outfit make me look fat or
doesn't, you know, whatever. Do you say, of course not, like you're supposed to, or are you honest
with them? Every now and then you get asked questions like, how do you like my new haircut?
And I, I, this has happened to me not too long ago. And I'm like, you know what,
the haircut's not my favorite, but I still like you. So it doesn't matter what your haircut is,
you can shave yourself bald, I still like you. Perhaps not quite as much physically, but still,
you know, I'm not going to dump you or anything. I guess I don't get asked that that often, but
usually I will just say what I think. What do you do? I'm, I mean, I don't get asked that real
question that often. I think honestly, so one thing- You must have been asked a question
not too long ago by someone you really liked that you were reluctant to answer because you thought
it would hurt them. I must have been. Sure. Everyone has to get that at least once a year,
right? And also a pro-socializer, the most common lies that people report on surveys.
Yeah, where like your white, like happy white lies, like I love the gift you got me.
Yeah, sure. And I, I mean, so those are kind of the ones I wish you spent more time talking about.
Like everyone knows somebody who has a bunch of horse stuff, right? Like horse bedsheets,
horse posters, horse figurines, because their family members at some point heard that they
hate that they like horses. And then then they get them that all the time. And because you have
to be like, Oh, I love it. You can't, you can't say, apparently to many people feel like they
can't say, I'm getting sick of horse stuff. I'd love anything else. And so they end up with all,
you know, they end up with tons of horse crap, right? Calendars, whatever. And so I think being
able to face a pro-social lie, again, you don't have to be a dick. But you can say, you know,
