I just recently read an article, uh, that said, God, what was it? I don't remember the details
because I didn't really read it. I skimmed it, but it was along the lines of talking and
euphemisms, like, uh, like you see in a Godfather movies, like, oh, it'd be terrible if an accident
were to happen to your place of business. Maybe I can help protect it for $100. Talking and
euphemisms rather than being direct, uh, makes it much easier for people to not only be dishonest
and do morally bad things, but to not feel bad about it. Like just using those words, even though
you know what you're doing, you'll feel less bad by dancing around it. So another good reason to
just be direct and honest about things. I can see that.
Or really don't trust anyone who starts using euphemistic language for bad behavior.
I mean, just don't trust anyone who uses euphemistic language in general, I guess.
I could think of a couple of examples. I'm sorry, go ahead.
It's hard to see how using euphemisms for things that aren't bad is going to have that effect.
Like you don't always want to say penis every now and then you can say shlong.
No, I'm not called upon to talk about penises a lot in my daily life, so.
You have the wrong job, sir.
I think I can think of a couple of anecdotes where that support Eleizer's
post that people who practice lying can be better dishonesty. And then the kind of reverse of that
is that if you're committed to being honest, not just with other people, but with yourself,
why is being dishonest to yourself bad? So if you acknowledge that it is bad and you'd rather
not be dishonest to yourself, well, you can face that and you can solve it. You can approach that
a lot quicker if you commit to being honest with yourself and with other people.
All right, so there was a book that Sam Harris wrote that was really short, like 50 pages on
lying. And he gave this anecdote where he was valedictorian of I think either his,
I think it was a college or a high school or college that he went to, and they wanted him
to give the commencement speech or something. And he was like, oh no, I think somebody who's
been to the school the full years, you know, I think he transferred in should do the speech
instead when really he was just terrified of public speaking. And so being called upon to
face that for himself would have been an avenue to addressing that problem earlier in his life,
right? Right. My own example was also academic, but it was like sixth grade. I went through an
elementary school that was K through six and in sixth grade, I was going to the junior high
school for math and I ended up dropping out because what I told, I don't remember now looking back,
if I actually believe this myself or if I knew that I was lying, I think I must have known on
some level that I wasn't being honest because I remember that it wasn't true, that I told people,
no, I miss being back at my school with my friends and stuff when really it was like,
I'm struggling too much and this is stressful. And if I had said, you know, no, look, I'm struggling
this is stressful, I might have been able to get like more assistance or something and, you know,
kept up with that math program. But really, it was, I just told people, no, no, I had this other
reason. It's not because it's too hard. It's I just don't want to anymore. And that, that let
sixth grade Steven back out of this, this math program. So I think those lies both came from
the Harris's example in mind came from being able to lie to other people about what I was actually
thinking led me, let me make it made it easier to lie to myself, which was Eleazar's point.
And I think that there's, I guess in my experience, there's, there's good reason to believe that.
There's a really good reason to try to not lie to yourself as much as possible.
That's where you really screw your life over.
Well, I mean, like even think of like a really hard question, you know, you see your friend and
ask her, how'd you get that bruise on your face? And she, you know, it and the actual answers that
her spouse or her partner's hitting her, but she gives you some answer, you know, that's, that's
obviously a lie. Well, the longer she can entertain that, the longer she doesn't have to face the
reality that she's an abusive relationship, right? So I mean, it's there. I mean, she knows she's
an abusive relationship. The more insidious ones are the ones like you were saying, where you were
just, you didn't realize that, I mean, I guess you kind of at some level realized that you were
struggling, but I was able to not make that my central focus. Yeah. This example is more just
like being able to face a hard truth, right? And that if you're, if you commit it to honesty,
you're going to face it right now and right away. There's no putting it off. So yeah,
that, I mean, that's, that's a different. It's really hard to unflinchingly look at
things that are difficult like that. Yeah, for sure. On the other hand, if you really
unflinchingly look at the fact that you're willing to lie to other people, then you can also
maybe tell the truth to yourself by recognizing that what you said to the other person is a lie,
right? Well, not being taken in by your own lies, but admitting to yourself that you were lying.
So if you're being honest with yourself, that you're being dishonest to other people, you're
like, okay, well, I know when I'm being dishonest, I'm being dishonest now. I'll be honest to myself
when I want. That could be true. It requires more mental energy though.
Yeah. And I mean, I don't know of any. And you may have the stress of knowing that you're lying.
So yeah, I think generally my thing about lying is that for the most part, it's unnecessary and
you're causing unneeded stress. And, you know, so the examples that people run to aren't really
examples that people use in day to day life. And that's, so that's what I thought you were
defending when we were talking about lying a few months ago. Well, I think what, as I recall that
conversation, you were suggesting some kind of radical change in reality that might improve
things. And one of the things you suggested was, what if people were just incapable of lying?
And that seems to me like something terrible. Terrible. Like, first of all, you're unable to
speak the words that you want to speak, even just because they're false.
Yeah, I remember the conversation now, or at least I remember that prompt. And that's right. I did
say, so I can't remember what the specific prompt was, but I think we're talking about
like what's one small change you could make that you think would make the world a better place.
And I do think that there will be some awkwardness to overcome in the first few days or first few
weeks. And as we kind of discussed, those high stakes situations where violence could happen are
not that uncommon. They are definitely threats in people's lives.
But do you think if no one could lie, then there would be less of those threats? If
someone asked a guy, how's your relationship doing? And his answer would have to be like,
hey, not that good. I beat my wife every week. Probably wouldn't happen as much with the beating
of the wife, right? That could be one way to kind of beat this scenario. So yeah,
the ex-wielding psychopath might come to your house less often if that person was compelled
to honesty for the entirety of his life, because what are the odds he would still be out on the
street? If that was his first break or whatever, and that's the first time he's going to do something
crazy. But if he's been violent his whole life, and he's incapable of hiding that fact, I don't
know, this is actually something that I would, this isn't a flushed out enough idea for me to get
behind and defend all the way. I can't think of the benefits of lying that are so great that I
wouldn't gladly make the world lie free. I admit there's definitely some benefits to it, but I
think the costs of it are great enough that they really overwhelm it. And just imagine how much more
relaxed everyone can be if they weren't having to read into everything everyone said. And the fact
that, oh, our government officials lie to us was a fact of life, right? That just mentioned politics
earlier. Or like, again, our employers, our family or whatever. Well, people still have the ability
to withhold information, and particularly people who are more powerful would have more ability to
withhold information. And it would be the people with less power who would be put on the spot and be
forced to answer direct questions more often. More often. But like, you could still get like a
government official, you know, under, if they're testifying, and you ask them direct questions.
If they say, I'd rather not answer that, you can just phrase the question and say, look, whatever
government person, I'm going to ask you, you know, have you been embezzling money? If you try
and, if a dodge is yes, yes or no, you know, so like... That's not a fair question. You can always,
you can't tell someone refusing to answer is admitting guilt. I mean, I guess I'm thinking
specifically like in a court, but I didn't mean to interrupt your analogy. Look, in a court, don't
don't we have the Fifth Amendment? I think we wouldn't need that. I mean, that's, we do, but
I've never been a constitution worshipper. So... In a court, all of a sudden, these questions become
even more likely to self incriminate you, right? Yeah. I mean, so again, this sounds like it's
way more distant from what we're talking about, like actually, you know, real life on the ground,
how to live our lives, but in a world where people didn't lie. And you're asking, you know,
the president, you know, did you, again, embezzle whatever it is. And if they say, I'm not going
to answer that, then you're like, oh, well, they would answer if the answer was no. And so I get
like why you're not supposed to self incriminate, but if, I guess, if it's impossible to not get
called out by being dishonest, you know, you could make a career out of dishonesty.
You probably just implement a blanket policy of never answering questions.
Right. Then you're answered to how's your days? Like, I don't want to tell you.
That would just be your answer to everything. Well, I mean, you could answer very simple ones
like that, but anything dealing with anything legally, you'd be like, I don't answer questions
about legalities. Sorry. Like a lot of people have the rule that I do not answer questions about
what I make, or I do not answer questions about my sexuality. If a boss asks you, so are you gay,
you're like, that's not an appropriate question for you to ask. In this situation, I'm picturing
if I could limit the power to lie, you know, like so maybe if we want to maintain lying for our
personal lives or whatever reason, it would be kind of cool if it was like impossible to lie
on the floor of the Senate, right? You know, like where, where our representatives couldn't get up
there and intentionally deceive each other or us, right? And I get why, how that has all kinds of
implications that like, oh, you're saying they can't actually say what they want to say. Like,
you're compelling them to do things like, yeah, kind of. But I mean, these aren't
average people with average powers, right? These are the last people on earth that you want
deceiving people. Does that make sense? Yeah, I just feel like the people, these, these people
with greater power than average would be the least likely to ever be put on the spot in that
situation. Like, if lying does not exist, maybe democracy would, would explode the next day.
Maybe. Yeah. Although I think in the examples that I'm running out, like these are the people
that exactly would be called out. You know, so like, if you ask them, I can't really think of any
non, you know, are these, are these sexual assault allegations? Do they have merit? And you can't
lie about it. You want to know if your, if your congressperson is a rapist. And, you know, like,
so like they, they, I can see where like a power imbalance might make things tough
when dealing with- I think we probably end up with a lot more Trumps.
Like one of the weird things about Trump is that he's post-truth. No matter what he says,
it doesn't matter. You're like, hey, he could be telling the truth. He could be lying. He doesn't
even know. So- I disagree. I feel like it would be impossible for us to have gotten Trump if, if
it was, if a candidate or- Well, cause I don't- I don't think- Imagine like, you know, like when you,
when you're in court and you're like, I swear on the Bible or, you know, you make a swear, you make
an oath of truth. Imagine if it became impossible for you to lie for the next hour. Right. But I don't
think Trump even lies all that much. He just randomly blurts out things that come into his head
without evaluating their truth function at all or their truth value at all. Given the definition
that we used of trying to communicate a belief that you know to be false to somebody, it's true
that it's entirely possible that if the, if the messenger of this is completely devoid of an
internal monologue or there's- Who knows if he even believes in the concept of truth? I was sort
of making a joke. Like if the lights aren't on, then there's nothing like, they're not convincing
anything. You know, like if I, if I have my computer print out random statements about different
colors of the sky, it's not lying. It's just, it's just saying stuff. In fact, you really
strongly incentivize to lie to yourself under this scheme. Yeah, it's true. Yeah. To deceive yourself
so that you could never have to be lying to other people. Maybe if you knew that's what you're doing.
And again, this, this is not something that I want to spend a lot of time defending because it's not
really a solid idea. I think we were entertaining it as a thought experiment, but it was, I don't
think, I certainly don't have a developed enough opinion on that to like sit here and talk about
it or to, I guess, what I'm getting at is don't write in and how dumb that is because I get,
I get that it's not the best idea, but I was, it is fun to think about. I mean, yeah, if you could
deceive yourself, I don't know, I don't, I guess it depends. You know, I couldn't convince myself
if I wanted to that the sky was red, right? But that's sort of an aside. So I won't go back to-
Well, I did want to briefly go back to the discussion of not technically lying.
And you mentioned how in Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, Harry does this
a lot. Yeah. It should have been one of my early clues that he's evil.
That he's the true villain of the piece. Well, or at least partly. Yeah.
So actually this comment back from 2009 by Eleazar seems to imply that he maybe is not as much of a
not technical liar as Harry, but he has some, some leanings towards that. It seems he said,
he writes that one of the primary motivations against lying is losing your reputation, like
getting a reputation for lying. And then he says, at least if you get a reputation for
not technically lying, your words still mean things, right? It's not like people are just
going to completely discount everything you say because you lie a lot. Your words actually do
still mean things if you technically don't lie. They just have to be carefully double-checked.
Yeah. That's not, that's not, someone with that reputation is not someone that I would
find worthy of engaging in a conversation because I don't want to have to sit there
and analyze every single sentence for hours to see how it could have possibly been, you know,
twisted. Well, on the other hand, if someone is writing to you and you have time to go over
their words that- It's still not worth it. No. I can see how it could be a reputation. It could
be a cool reputation to have as in like, oh, that guy's really smart. That is some clever,
witty things he did with his lying, but still not someone I would want to engage with if I knew
that was a thing they did often. I mean, I assume everyone lies from time to time and I have not
cut off all communication with the outside world. So I accept some level of lying from people, but
if it was a constant thing, it would be like talking to, you know, Loki or one of the trickster gods.
But there's also- You can't trust anything what they say.
There's a spectrum between explicit lying and complete non-deception and in between that,
like the level of not technically lying, right? There are ways where you can sort of mislead
people, but not that much or not that egregiously.
I'm not the only person right now thinking of the magic users from the Wheel of Time book series.
Never read it.
The Isidae, that's the name of the magic users. And when they attain the position of, you know,
being formal, whatever, they just call them whatever. It's this whole thing. But they take three O's
that they're bound to, like an unbreakable vow in methods of rationality. They're incapable
of not doing it. So one of them is to never speak a word that isn't true.
And so they're famously annoying to deal with and everybody hates talking to them because
they know that there's going to be this Isidae trickery in their statements that they're going
to make me think something, but it's not really true, but it's technically true.
But, and they all know that, the magic users, they know that there's this reputation and that
they can, you know, they have this loki, this forked loki tongue. But what it does do is maintains
like you're saying that if they say, if they say something direct, then you know it's true
because you know they can't lie. So like there's a difference obviously in that humans can.
But it is nice to have that ability to be taken completely seriously if you say something direct
and unambiguous. But having the general reputation of being incapable of having an honest conversation
and dealing with, you know, fairly isn't really worth it. Like it's better to kind of have both,
right? To not be dishonest for all intents and purposes and to be able to be trusted when you
give a direct statement. But yeah, if you have to pick one, or if you, if you, if you can have one,
then go for it. Is that sort of what he's saying and what, what you would get behind? Or I feel
