Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy. I'm Manny Ashbrotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber and today we
have a guest. You want to introduce yourself? I'm Shelly. Hello there, Shelly. Shelly is
here with us because she thinks that everyone should lie all the time. Not a fair characterization
and I think I probably disagree with Shelly more than you do. What are we actually talking
about? Do you want to introduce it with your... We're going to talk about the topic of lying
in general, I think. Yeah, and I guess it's relevant to the rationalist community in that
I think there's maybe slightly stronger norms against lying among rationalists supposed
to general society. There definitely seems to be at least the ideal that we tell the
truth as much as possible, even to the point of making people uncomfortable, which I don't
think that everyone holds to that, but it's nice to have that as an ideal, right?
Well not that everyone would be uncomfortable. I think the idea is that once... So people
are uncomfortable with honesty, right? So the idea is, I think in my mind, to overcome
that and to make it to where you can actually engage with somebody directly and honestly
save yourselves a bunch of time and drama, right? Or even, I guess if you're going to say in
rationalist terms, minimize communication time and minimize message length by just getting
straight to the point, right? But a lot of people seem to need that, like it's a lubricant.
Because otherwise, if you're just being all honest at each other, there's friction out
in the real world, it seems. By the real world, I mean the crazy world where all the insane people
are. Yeah, avoiding just straight to the point, honesty does have some perks.
So what are these perks? Just in general, like if you want to
to get someone to do things that are benefit you, that don't necessarily benefit them.
That seems like a bad thing to do, like in just... I mean, I'm using bad in like the moral sense
here that I would feel bad trying to get someone to do things to benefit me that hurts them.
I agree. I'm wondering, is there a defensible example of that? Or are you just okay saying?
Do you want to keep the money that you have right now? Because that would benefit you, but
if you give it to me, that would benefit me. So the cases really are just like sociopathic
self-interest. No, I thought that would be a straw man, but like is that really what you're
like defending here? No, no. Okay, good. Yeah, so what's the
sociopathic version of defending this? Obviously, like people's interests don't always completely
align. And sometimes someone may, for instance, you know, want to kill your friend and they ask
you, where's your friend hiding? And instead of saying the truth will answer, friends in the
basement, you say, she's somewhere, she's in the next town over. I'm totally ripping off Slaystar
Codex's example right now. Oh, damn, if there's a Slaystar example, he's probably thought of my
comeback, which is I tell the killer, fuck you. That's what my friend is, right? Well, I mean,
but maybe he has an axe and he looks very ready to use it on you. That's why I'm sort of a fan of
like home defense, but just for the occasional axe wielding psychopath. Yeah. I mean, I guess,
so this is that is one of like the standard examples. In fact, I think we talked about this
when we talked about cons way back when. Yeah. And that the post is actually about that. Oh,
you can't reason with deontology or something. Yeah. No, no, no. You can't dismiss universal
universality. Yeah. I like the idea of general rules in some contexts. But like, this is one
of those things where, you know, cons does just bite the bullet and say, yep, you just tell them
the truth. I've got him here rather than. So for me, the comeback is if you're not comfortable,
just telling them to fuck off. And if you don't want to lie, your alternative is to engage with
them. If they're an axe wielding psychopath, they're not the kind of they've kind of given up
there. And this could be a circumstance where I advocate lying. I guess I wouldn't advocate lying
up until you've reached the point where the potential for honest communication is broken down.
Right. So if you're dealing with a psycho who's there to kill you or your friends,
that might be a point, right? But at some point, that person's going to get somewhere where someone's
going to shut them down physically, you know, the police are going to show up and arrest them or
whatever it is, right? Or the town people get together and strip that axe away from them or
something. I think that once you have that much of a fundamental conflict of values,
then there's going to be, yeah, you're going to have to resort to violence in some sort. And
I guess verbal violence in that case would be better than physical violence, at least until
you can get someone who's better at physical violence to come, like the cops. But I still,
in general, think it is a thing that would be good to avoid. Like, I don't like that example
specifically because everyone can agree, yes, in that case, you do lie to people,
because this is a case where you're going to come into violent conflict anyway. And
if you know you're going to be fighting someone, you might as well go ahead and lie to them.
But I meant more like in like general life situations. I, so I find myself, I have sort of
a avoidance of conflict thing going where I will occasionally not lie per se, but hold back
the truth. Fine, fuck it. I lie sometimes to avoid conflict with other people because I'm like,
I just, I'd rather not argue with you. We can just let this go. And I mean, that has led to
a few unfortunate circumstances in my life where afterwards I was like, I really wish I just would
have been honest up front. Yeah. My position, despite being on a podcast talking about defending
lying, is that lying is usually not a good idea. And for the obvious reasons that children are
taught why not to lie, that people won't believe you anymore. And it's really difficult to keep
track of all the web of other lies that will depend on your first lie. And it's,
it's effortful to lie. And like, as, as you just described, you end up regretting lies when you
may be caught. For such a good purpose, though. I just want to not fight, man.
So Shelley, those are kind of my exact thoughts too. And the one thing I don't like about,
the other thing I don't like about the, the axe wielding example is that people are way too quick
to generalize from that and say, aha, so you admit it's okay to lie. So like,
therefore it's okay to like lie to your friend about why you're breaking plans or, you know,
lie to your spouse where you were all night or something like that, right? And there's,
I guess that I think once you've reached the point where you're prepared to engage in violence,
then then lying to them, you're past the point of ever trying to have an honest relationship
with the person. But that doesn't apply to the overwhelming majority of lies people tell,
you know, we're not often lying to axe wielding murders, we're lying to our friends and family
for like stupid and what we'll often acknowledge ourselves are stupid reasons.
Well, I did look up some research online and unfortunately it was a survey where people
self report. So I'd, you know, take that with a grain of salt. But the surveys seem to show that
when people self report how much they lie, about 60% of people say that they don't really lie very
much at all. And then people are liars that perhaps so. And the people who did report lying
reported several lies, I guess. So it's like a few people are big liars. And while most people
don't lie that much, I think was the results of the survey. And I wonder what like that much meant
in that context. I mean, so there's all kinds of cool stuff about, again, you have to go by
self report, unless you're going to just stalk people and, you know, fact check everything
they say or something. But
Well, no, there are other studies that try to determine lying in other methods.
Oh, well, I'd be curious to learn about those too. I guess I was going to say that there are
things where apparently people who write them, I guess maybe these are the same people who would
say I'm dishonest, you know, would check, you know, I'm dishonest sometimes on whatever these
surveys are people in similar circumstances, not knowing exactly what you're talking about.
But those similar people will assume that other people are dishonest with them as well.
Oh my God. And so I have noticed the hell out of that. I have noticed that if someone believes
the world is out to get them, and basically everyone is evil and trying to screw over everyone
else and take it all the advantage they can for themselves. Those are the exact same people that
do that sort of thing all the time. It seems to me they're basically just generalizing from
their own experience in life. And so I no longer trust people who don't trust others.
Because it means you're probably a lying douchebag,
which is unfortunate because you can't trust people all the time either, you know. So it makes
me feel like I am punishing people for being realistic about the fact that you can't always
trust everyone. But whenever I see someone just every single thing out, yep, that's how they get
you. So I'm like, oh God. Well, it may be the kind of heuristic that applies more to extremes,
right? Like people who, as you say, are always thinking that way are probably more,
probably more conformed to that rule. People who can't even get to free guacamole at a restaurant
without saying, ah, there's a scam involved. So Shelley, what, what, uh, the agreement,
or at least the implicit agreement was that you're going to defend lying for us? Or are we all on
the same page? So, so getting back to the defending lying, I guess the thing that I wanted Shelley
on is because in the Russians community is often sort of a norm to go to the extreme of being
always honest to the point of like, painful, uh, transparency, honesty all the time. And you think
that that is not necessarily a good thing all the time. Yeah. First of all, I guess maybe we
should break down like all the different categories and complexities of deception
because there is explicit lying and then there is not technically lying.
Not technically lying is the one that annoys me the most because Harry did that a lot from,
from the Harry Potter methods of rationality where he would say things that were technically true,
but in a way where he knew the person was drawing the false conclusion. And I'm like,
if you're saying, you know, something in a way that makes someone get wrong information about the
world, you're lying to them. Even if, you know, a genie would say, yes, those words are technically
the truth. That's the definition I like to sort of when you're, when you're intentionally trying
to communicate something to get your recipients to have a belief that you know isn't true. Yeah.
So like technically true, there's the fun example, like I go take a tour at the White House and I
call Cory Gardner, our, our state representative. And I say, this is Steven Zuber. I'm calling from
the White House. I'd like to talk to the Cory Gardner. So what does that communicate? That
sounds like I'm calling from the White House and I'm an important person, but I'm just calling
from proximity to the White House. So like I'm, but that, that statement is calculated to deliver
that obviously false message, right? Where like, I know they're going to believe the wrong thing.
So that, that to me is, that's a lie, right? But I don't feel like if some, you know, so like,
what's the standard thing that people don't like talking about? Like how much money they have?
So someone asked me, Steven, how much money do you have? I can say, I don't want to tell you.
Yeah. That's the honest answer. Not, here's my exact bank balance, right?
It is really weird dodging around those sorts of things because I don't really care if people
know how much money I have or how much I make. I don't consider money a very good indication
of moral worth, but in society, there's this very strict, in our society anyway,
there's this, this norm. There's this norm of not telling anyone how much you make or how much
you have. And so as oftentimes I'm like dancing around saying these numbers when I'm like,
God, I really wish I could just blurt this out because who gives a fuck, you know,
but you don't want to be seen as the asshole who has no idea about social conventions.
I share that belief with you about money. I've chose that because it's a topical example.
I mean, what's another one that people find, you know, uncomfortable to talk about?
That was the first thing that came to mind, but the money thing's pretty ubiquitous,
but I'm in your boat there.
I believe you were just earlier talking about whenever someone says, how are you,
you're just supposed to say fine.
Yeah, I think that might be a mistake on my part because when people say, how are you,
I almost always answer honestly just on reflex. And I mean, I don't go into the too much information
zone like, oh man, this morning I woke up with just diarrhea coming out of my ass.
But I'll be like, eh, you know, I've been better.
Yeah, I think I kind of do that as well. Because my tendency is to try and be at least
technically honest when speaking to people, especially when answering your direct question.
Especially if it's something as low stakes as how are you? Like, I don't know why I would lie about
that. And to be clear, I don't think I would lie about that either. I think what I was getting at
there's a difference between...
Well, the socially accepted answer is fine.
Well, I mean, there's also like the question, this involves a level of mind dream that I don't
usually like to get into. But often, like if your boss comes around your desk and says,
hey, how are you doing today? You don't say, oh man, trouble, trouble at home.
Here's all my list of problems. You don't list why everything isn't great.
You and I might say, eh, it's okay, pretty okay day.
But there are people who would say, Ross isn't really asking, how are you?
They're asking, they're saying hello, right? So I mean, if you really believe that,
you can reply with whatever you want. And you know, you just, if you actually think,
yes, they're not asking about me, they're asking, they're saying hi or whatever,
then you can give whatever the, you know, return greeting is. But you can also give a,
you can use a statement that expresses greeting, but it's also in its explicit content,
accurate as well. I always say not too bad. I mean, because that's technically true.
You don't have leprosy. So I mean, yeah, other than like I said,
other examples of lying than like sociopathic self-interest, you know, well, you have money
that would like, so I'm going to convince you of things in order to give, you know,
to let you give you, or to convince you to give you, give you, give me your money.
Man, I struggled with that sentence. Or, you know, I'm going to lie about a bunch of things to
get you to sleep with me or something. Those typically I think are not regarded as favorable
by anybody, you know, other than psychopaths or, you know, the people who are, who are like that.
So I mean, is there, is there a level of lying that anyone here is okay with? Or are we all
just going to sit here and- I mean, other than the extreme examples that you agreed were okay?
Well, what did I agree to exactly? I think you talked about like if physical violence is-
Oh, yeah, yeah. Once, once the possibility for like amicable communication is gone, then yeah.
If you're in a position where you're ready to hurt or kill somebody, you're in a position
where it's okay to lie to them too. Right. So I think one level of lying that I
engage in myself and I think is probably acceptable is when someone puts you in a position
where you basically have to lie to them. And I think we were just talking about this a little
earlier. What was the question you got asked when you go into a job interview?
Like why do you want to work here or something? Oh, yeah, exactly. Like what made you pick us?
The answer is always because you're going to give me money. Right.
Yeah. Or because, you know, out of the 250 places I applied to, you're one of the three
places to call me back. Right. So like- But, but they, how do they not know? They obviously know
that the correct answer is because you need to pay your fucking rent and they're there
willing to give you money for it. And yet they still ask the damn question anyway. So they deserve
to get a stupid lie back because what are you going to do? Be the one guy who, who tells them the
truth? God, I think that you might have caught me in a corner there because well, so this might
be an example of one of those circumstances where you're, it's not actually an engaged,
like an honest engagement of, of communication. There was really, it's just like a personality
test. We want to ask you a generic question, see if you can answer in a roughly human fashion.
Stephen, did you lie to that question? So I told Inyash. So I interviewed at a company that's
like eight people last week and they asked me, you know, what attracted you to this company? And
what attracted me? You guys wanted to interview with me. That's what attracted me the most.
But so obviously I can't say that. So what I did say is like, well, I love the idea of, you know,
being responsible for a product that I actually built, not being one of like 40 other developers
who worked on something. I like being able to take ownership of my stuff. And, you know,
I find that level of direct involvement with, with the product, you know, desirable or something,
