who was anti feminist was you could tell right away an asshole. And it has encompasses other
things than it used to now. And now it's a pain in the ass, you can't use the word feminist
necessarily as an unreserved good anymore. Well, that's why I use that example, like Scott Alexander
from Slate's Guard Codex. I'm not sure if this is still true, but I know as of a few years ago,
he didn't, he explicitly didn't identify as feminist. Yes. Because he'd had some very bad
experiences. Right. And some of the connotations. And he's like, No, of course, I'm for equality,
which some people would be like, Well, that's all feminism is. And he's like, Well, that's not my
experience. So they're arguing about, you know, what this is means. And that's exactly the conversation
that people like him and Neil deGrasse Tyson want to avoid. They're just like, You know what,
ask me, ask me what I believe. Don't, don't make me give you a few syllables, and then you give
me all my beliefs. But if you can load up a word with enough negative connotations,
you can then use that word to, to club people, even if it doesn't necessarily apply to them.
Yes. I guess that's one of the problems of identifying under a banner, right? Right. Right.
So I know that there's some, there's been some dragging of rationalist, the rationalist community
through the mud by some writers in the last few weeks. I don't have anything in front of me, but
I can find stuff pretty quick. Some tweets, some short articles about like, Oh, basically like
all the straw man. Okay. But they were like, That's all the shit that these crazy people are
all about. And, you know, look at how weird LA Iser is occasionally. So they're all like, they
all like think this is, you know, a great thing. So they're, they're doing kind of what people
will do be like, Oh, this person's atheist. Therefore, they're like an amoral baby eating
Satan worshiper. Right. Exactly. So I mean, you can drag stuff through the mud if you,
which is really annoying because you load up atheist with all the things immoral, doesn't
believe in laws, eats babies. And then you ask someone, do you believe in God? And they're
like, no. And they're like, see atheist, but, but there's nothing wrong with not believing in God.
And like, but a person who doesn't believe in God is an atheist, right? And you're like, yeah,
like, so you eat babies, kill him. And yeah, it gets, it gets weird pretty quick.
The worst argument in the world. Yes. That article. It basically is exactly that.
What is this, the worst argument in the world? I think I need to read this.
It's actually kind of basically what we just said, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's loading up a word
with a whole bunch of negative connotations and then using its strict technical definition to
tar a bunch of people. Oh, that's a slate star codex. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I'm familiar. Okay.
I thought it was some like older philosophy thing that no camera. I feel like he originally
posted on less wrong is this art. I will be Google later. It sounds like fun. But yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So that is, that is our perspectives on your question.
Cool. Did anyone else have anything else to add about that?
I had one real quick one. We had somebody write in apparently in the digital rights
and privacy episode. I mentioned the ad blocker I use and I said it too fast,
which is completely reasonable because I talk really fast. I use you block origin,
which is an open source ad block software that I really like. I think apparently ad block
started letting ads in from people who paid them enough. I heard something about this.
Don't quote me on that. But I heard that. Well, I mean, that's the thing too,
is if it's not open source, you don't know exactly what they're doing. So you block,
you block origin is open source. It's for, I know at least Chrome, probably other browsers as well.
So one quick Google away. Do we have another feedback? I do not know.
I think that's it then. I mean, we've got some good conversations at the subreddit.
Nothing I really want to paraphrase. We will quickly say you can comment at our website,
TheBazingConspiracy.com or at the subreddit slash TheBazingConspiracy. Yes, you can write us an
email. We often appreciate if you give reviews on iTunes because that helps people know that we exist
and that makes us very happy. And it makes us even more happy if you support us on Patreon
for a dollar per episode or however much you want to give. And also while we're on the topic,
mad props to our sound engineer, Kyle Moore, who does a lot of work for us every week
and makes us sound good. We love him. I made a short list of all the things to say in the last
minute and you just hit all of them. Thank you for your support, everyone who's currently supporting
us on Patreon. You are the best. Like you just mentioned, don't hesitate to leave a review at
iTunes if you want. The last thing I will say as far as feedback, I think the last two sections have
been dominated by us responding to one person about sort of, maybe you guys not the last two,
some of them in the last couple of months because these episodes aren't coming out in order that
we're recording them in. How do we want to put this? We spend a lot of time engaging one person
who I think most of us find pretty objectionable. And I wanted to just kind of put out there that
won't become a long-term trend. It was basically, since this person's engaging good faith, I wanted
to respond in good faith, but it was sucking up a lot of airtime. And I think it's not really,
doesn't behoove us to really spend that much time on the air giving voice to some of these
opinions. So if you got sick of those, we did too. So don't worry, they're mostly gone.
Can't promise that we'll never ever talk to any of these people again, but we won't be spending
45 minutes dissecting some really nasty emails. So anyway, thanks, and I think that's our episode.
Yeah. Thank you, Steven. Thank you, Shelley. This was awesome.
Thanks.
All right, cool. Thanks. Bye.
Bye.
