Yeah. And if you are part, I feel like I am being honest, because if you are part of a
minority that gets a lot of shit from the massive, the majority of the culture,
I think it counts, right? Am I wrong about that?
Well, I guess it depends on the exact wording of the question, though. But religious minority,
I think atheism is completely in that category. I don't think that you're really fudging on that
I think a lot of people would draw attention with you calling it a religious anything,
but for the intents and purposes of like getting all the legal benefits,
sure, or the legal benefits, sure. I always consider atheism to be basically a religion.
I mean, it is a religious alignment, I guess. Yeah, religious alignment, I think.
I always use it's a religion in the same way that not collecting stamps is a hobby,
or that baldness is a hairstyle. Yeah, but it's not really because
it's not a religion, but it's a religious alignment. Yeah, yeah, it's not a religion.
There's no strictures or anything, but there is, you've considered these things and you've come
to the conclusion that it's bullshit and that the world is materialistic, which is
still a philosophy that generally is confined to the religious domain, right?
I like Shelley's version of religious alignment more.
Did you use alignment? I did.
Oh, I heard you repeat it, sorry. So I think alignment is different than like a religion,
right? This is sort of an aside.
But no, the questions are extremely loosely worded to the point where
they could mean almost anything. I do not feel bad checking those because
if they actually were to ask something like, have you slept with a man, then I would be no.
But they're like, are you under this entire spectrum of deviant, different, not deviant,
but altered sexualities. I'm like, yes, I actually fall under several categories there.
So that's actually a good distinction. I know when I give blood, they'll ask specifically
because in some places it might still be the case. It's been a few years,
but they care if you're a gay male, they want to know if you've had sex with a man.
Yeah, yeah.
And they ask you explicitly.
Right. And I'm like, there's some men I'm attracted to. I've never had sex with any of them.
Well, no, Chris Hemsworth won't return my calls.
I just have to become more popular.
There's, at that point, you'd be lying to say yes. Right. So I guess there's a difference.
I feel like we're getting a little sidetracked.
Right.
Sorry. Shelly, you want to bring us back on?
Oh, well, I did bring a few links and notes about the topic. So maybe I can bring those up.
The revelation principle has to do with game theory and economics, I suppose.
Tell us about the revelation principle.
So first I have to tell you what mechanism design is, which is even more complicated to talk about.
People have described mechanism design as reverse game theory in that you start with
the outcome you want as a function of the elements that come into play.
So you figure out what you want to do. For instance, an outcome might be
you want the person who needs the resource more to get it or something to get more of it.
Or so whatever outcome it is, so then you design a mechanism whereby the players can,
within these restrictions of the mechanism, act in such a way that you'll get your outcome.
And so the revelation principle is a fundamental principle in mechanism design.
It says that if it is possible to create some mechanism, according to certain restrictions,
I guess, I don't know the exact thing. But anyway, you can, in theory, implement that same function
in a mechanism where the players do not have to lie.
Okay. I wasn't sure I understood exactly what all this is.
Can you summarize what this means?
Maybe I should just read the Wikipedia.
Or if you can bring it home with an example, that works too.
Are we talking about when you're going to a car dealership and you're trying to negotiate with
someone? That could be an example.
That's always one of the things I hate about those sorts of interactions that you both know
that you're lying. He's giving you an artificially high price because he knows you're going to
trot him down. You're giving him an artificially low price because he's giving you a high price.
And it's like, why do we have to go through these hours of bullshitting each other when
we could both just start with very reasonable actual prices?
Last time I went to a dealership, the guy came up to me,
hey, how much do you like to spend on a car today? And I said, I would like to spend zero.
And I gave him a nudge, nudge, wink, wink. I'm obviously kind of playing along,
but I'm not going to play. I'm looking to spend somewhere in the neighborhood of 15 grand.
It's like, no, I'm not good. If I can get what I want for 10, I want it for 10,
or if I can get it for five, that's what I want. But he asked how much I want.
I'd like to get a free car. That's the honest answer.
And that makes things tough because if everyone could just say exactly what they wanted and be
honest about it, you could much more easily allocate the resources or do what needs to be
done efficiently. But since everyone thinks that the other people, and that matter knows that the
other people are going to be inflating theirs, you got to do it as well.
Sort of. It depends. Isn't that what we got with our politics lately, it feels like?
Do we want to go there? No, okay, fine. It just seems like people are like, oh, we got it.
I'll try and use this example from Wikipedia. The utilitarian function is roughly that whoever
values it more gets the prize. And it talks about auctions and how people are incentivized to
bid lower than they really would value it so that they possibly can get the item for a lower price.
But second price auction is a different strategy than your typical auction.
It's a sealed bid auction, and the highest bidder wins, but the price they have to pay
is the second highest price that was bid. That is really cool. Yeah. So people are less
incentivized to be deceptive about how much they really would pay. Well, hold on. Wouldn't it be
really easy then to just put down a billion dollars and then whoever made the most reasonable offer,
you'd actually just pay whatever they were going to pay? Yeah. So you can guarantee that you would
win for whatever a reasonable price would be. But if someone put down a billion minus one dollars,
that's true. Then you have to pay a billion minus one. Indeed. I guess if you're the only person
that you knew who was going to be a dick and not play by the spirit of the game.
No. So yeah, you can't just maximize it because everyone's going to maximize it,
but there's always a chance that your bid is actually going to be the second highest,
and then that's going to actually be the price. Right. Well, then if your bid is the second
highest, then you won't get what you want, but some other idiot is stuck paying a billion dollars
for whatever thing you bid it on, right? I hadn't heard it called that before,
but I heard it. That being proposed is one of the ways to solve the government contractor problem
where since in a lot of areas, the governments are required to take the lowest bidder,
companies will just give fake low bids. And then, you know, oops, we ran over on cost.
Oops, this take a month longer than we thought. And this is why everything goes over budget now,
because you lie to get the contract. And someone proposed that the rule be changed to you have
to take the second lowest bid, which, you know, punishes the people who go artificially low.
Well, that's slightly different from it is, but it reminded me of that. It was a very cool concept.
So the revelation principle says that for any mechanism that, that actually accomplishes
something there, if that mechanism involves deception, there's a different one that could
also accomplish it that does not involve deception. Okay. Does it, does it say how to do that? No.
No. Okay. So in some cases, like even if there's theoretically this other game you could be playing
in which you don't have to lie, are you really going to be able to convince everyone to play
that game instead of the game that we are playing? So yeah, I guess maybe the difference just running
with the example given is like where you're doing the second bid auction, but you're not telling
anybody until the end versus one where you tell them at the beginning. Is that?
Yeah. Well, that's a totally different game there.
Yeah. So I guess I'm not really sure. Let me, let me ask this a different way. When you and I talked
about this once, we talked about like just lying in general and you were like, no, I think I can
find some defensible cases for that. Or you came off speaking more in favor of it to the level where
I was surprised. Was this miscommunication between us or?
It may have just been a reaction against the extreme honesty idea of rationality. I saw someone
recently, I showed this to you earlier, I saw someone recently on a post from a kind of rationalist
memer person, Rob Wiblin. Everyone here knows Rob Wiblin, right? No. Okay. Anyway, he posted
something and a commenter replied that she was really annoyed by the fact that everyone has
to pretend that honesty is this most important thing ever and everyone has to be honest all the
time because of her commitment to honesty, because that means people are lying about the fact that
sometimes lying is the best thing to do in consequentialist terms. I read what you're
talking about and she conflated honesty with free speech. I don't think the original post was about
free speech. I know, but I think she even said that for her, the two are the same. Okay. And I
think that they're different. That honesty and free speech are different? Yes. One is the protection
to say whatever you want without fear of getting thrown in jail or killed or hurt. The other one
is being able to or I guess being encouraged to or whatever is not deceiving somebody, right? So
there's a difference. Yeah, but I think she was annoyed that everyone is always saying you have
to always tell the truth. There's no reason ever to lie. And she's saying that in itself is a lie.
Is she lying about that? What's that? I had to have that joke at least once.
Like, so I mean, that's always my joke about somebody who defends lying. I'm like, are you
lying right now? I think it is actually fairly rare, even among rationalists to say that there's
absolutely no cases where it's, it's good utility to lie. I mean, there was the you can't dismiss
universal ality, was it? Universal bull eyes and allow it? Right. And even in that post, I think
the ultimate conclusion that Scott ends up drawing is rather not like don't ever lie, but
don't make decisions where you erase the possibility of positive some deals.
His example is really fascinating. Have you read the post?
I'm sure I have, but I can't remember the example.
It's the one where he says a soldier is captured by the enemy and the enemy asks,
where is your headquarters located? And he can either tell them the truth or lie.
And if he tells them the truth, they bomb the headquarters, they take out his leadership,
or he can lie. They bomb an empty warehouse. And then after that, they don't trust him anymore.
They don't ask him. So instead of bombing just the headquarters, they're like, well,
shit, we know that the headquarters is somewhere in the city. They just nuke the city to get rid
of it. And then the person of war is like, well, shit, I would have much rather that they just
take out the HQ with the leadership than nuking the entire city. And Scott pointed out that
if they assumed that the guy was just going to lie to them, they wouldn't have wasted their time
or their resources. The fact that he might held them the truth is why they asked. And if you commit
to, you know, I will lie when it is in my advantage, then they no longer, there's no longer that
possibility for trade of information that even though I don't want my HQ to die, I want my whole
city to exist much more. So I am willing to make that trade, even though it's kind of a shitty
trade. And he's saying if you are committed to lie about that to protect your own side, then
you're just going to get your city nuked instead. Well, that's, that's just a bigger version of the
Kant dilemma, right? So I mean, I could see what they're saying. It could just as well be where
they just have one bomb or some other ridiculous constraint on the, on the problem where they
only have one bomb and they're going to send it wherever you tell them to because they're idiots
or, you know, whatever it is, right? I mean, that's, that's worth considering. But that's,
that's just, you know, what are the fallouts of lies? And then you're kind of responsible for those
too. You're also responsible for the truth. So I mean, one thing that you might say in the situation
is fuck off, right? I'm not going to tell you where they are because they're going to nuke the
city. Oh, are they threatening you to, are they making that explicit? That's basically their
choice. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Well, in that case, yeah, then you just do the math and, you know,
do I want my squadron and my, my commander's dead or do I want everybody I know and love dead?
I mean, that's not hard either. I mean, that's obviously a hard decision to make, but that's
not hard to sit here and make from armchairs. Maybe I'm missing something.
Maybe you're hoping that if they hit the empty warehouse, that'll give your side a little bit
more time to make a counter attack and take them out before they can go ahead and take out the
city. That's a fair point. I mean, certainly once you start like picking up too many details,
then you can find some way around it, right? The scenario kind of implies that lying is a last
resort weapon that you should only use if, you know, you're never going to be able to use that
again. No one's going to ever going to trust you again. So save your lie up till the
until it really matters. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's what I'm working on. That's my long con,
right? Five years is then when it does 10 years from now, you're going to rip off your face.
I'm like, I'm an alien motherfucker. Well, I mean, then I'm the feast. And then when someone asks,
you know, when the, when, you know, so like, I mean, that, that is one of the things I guess,
man, to make this just super sound super, we talked about sociopathic self-interest before,
it could be in your long-term sociopathic best interests to be radically honest for the next
few years to have a really big lie to tell than I want to believe it because he has this good
reputation of being so honest. Oh my God. That's not what I'd advocate. I would advocate for doing
it for, for other reasons, but I never tell you what happened to me as a teenager. It was basically
this. Oh my God. Although I kind of wasted it, I guess, although not really. So, okay, I, I'm
generally pretty shitty at lying. I just, I'm, I'm not good at it. And basically everyone
knows this about me. My parents know I'm crappy at lying. And so I don't try to do it very often.
When I do, I'm usually caught and it sucks. But one time I called my sister a bitch.
And that is a big deal in my house. And my sister went and told my parents,
I think I was like 14 at this time. And my parents came up to me and were like,
did you call your sister a bitch? And I was like, I'm going to die. I will not see the son ever
again. And I said, no, I wouldn't do that. That's horrible. With totally straight face. Like this
was the one time in my life I needed to lie. And having that reputation for being really shitty
at lying saved me because I pulled it off entirely. It was crazy. And, uh, yeah. And looking back on
it, that was a terrible time to waste it. But on the other hand, it, they believed me. So I guess
I didn't actually waste it. That was the beginning of your deceptive period in your life. Yes, I
suppose so. And it also feels weird because now I'm telling everybody, Hey, even though I'm generally
really shitty at lying, if it's really important to me, I can pull one over on you. If you're a
terrified 14 year old, maybe there was a great Lucy K joke along the same lines, uh, where he's
talking about when his, he had like two daughters, like nine and seven years old and how the older
ones just figuring out lying is a thing. And how it's like, how can I tell them not to do that
when it's only a perfect solution to every problem they have right now? You know, so it's like,
all right, so they're terrified and they can, they can be, they can tell the truth and get in
trouble or they can just lie and I'll believe them and it'll be fine. So anyway, it, it, that
brought mind, that brought that to mind. And if they started practicing lying young, maybe they'd
get better at it. Oh God. That is not something you want. But there's also, I think in a post by
Eleazar on less wrong comment, I think, he suggested that maybe lying to other people
makes you better lying to yourself. And then, then you're really screwed.
