Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Manny Ashbrotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber.
With us today, we have Audrey McDowell. She is a teacher and she is on the podcast because
today we are going to talk about schooling and why it is terrible and nobody should ever
go to school.
We've got to work on your intros.
Yeah, I know.
I'm just trying to say something that'll get our host right away be like, hey, no, let's
talk about this because you're wrong about everything.
Well, I'm expecting that though.
Okay. So would you like to tell us a little bit about your background in teaching?
Sure. So it all didn't advance until I have a cold right now that I might be coughing.
I have been a teacher at a public charter school for two years now. Before that, I went to
St. Lawrence University and got my degree in English Literature and Teaching. While
there, I spent God knows how many contact hours in various classrooms from elementary
to middle to high school in the three different schools in New York and one school, a private
school actually in London, where I spent four weeks.
And so I have a decent background in working with kids of all ages and both teaching, test
prep, actually running tests with kids, project-based learning, Common Core, kind of the basics
there.
Excellent. So you have the new Common Core skills too, right? Because that was not in
school when I was around. Stephen, did you get any of the Common Core stuff?
I'm not 100% sure what Common Core was called back then or if that's what it was. What's
Common Core? Can you lay that down for me?
So Common Core is essentially a set of standards. There are some, I know that the big beep with
Common Core, a lot of people put on the internet is like, oh, they're teaching math this new
weird way. I don't know much about that. I teach English language arts and social studies.
And for me, and I use a mix of both the Common Core, which is the kind of the national standard
and then the Colorado State Standards. And the set of standards essentially say in sixth
grade, you learn X, Y, and Z in writing, in reading, in fiction and nonfiction. For example,
in social studies, sixth graders, they have a focus on like ancient civilizations and Western
civilizations. Seventh grade is Eastern SIB. And eighth grade is US history. And I know that
because I teach at my charter school, sixth, seventh, and eighth grade in a mixed classroom.
Okay. Well, the reason that we are having this podcast is because the podcast is specifically
aimed at the Bayesian rationalist community. And for, I don't know, almost as long as it's been
around, the community in general has kind of been looking sort of side eye at the whole schooling
system. I believe one of Robin Hansen's many refrains is that what is it? Schooling isn't
about education. And it has recently been coming up again, making the rounds. So we figured we
would talk about it this time. Do I basically got that right, Steven?
Yeah, I think the other reasons it's in the news is that SV wrote a post on it recently, I think
inspired by the chapter in Robin Hansen's new book, The Elephant and the Brain on Education. And
that was also related to Brian Kaplan's new book, The Case Against Education. And I'm sorry,
Audrey, I missed it. What age group did you teach?
Sixth, seventh, and eighth graders. So that's middle school.
Awesome. I just wanted to check if I get that count later.
Should we, I guess, lay down first with the common Bayesian, or not Bayesian, sorry,
the common rationalist opinion is about, or at least what the discussion has been recently,
about education. And then Audrey can, you know, tell us what she thinks from an inside view from
the education scene. Yeah, that's fine. I also want to disclose that I'm a big fan of teachers in
general. My answer teacher, and I don't think anyone's down on teachers or the enterprise,
I think it's the, like, quote, industry, unquote. And I think the main argument is basically that
schools aren't really what they're, their real purpose isn't actually tied to what they say they
do, or what they say they're for, that it's not so much about like educating people and training
them for jobs in the, like, the most palatable sense. I think it's, like, the cases, the arguments
against there are like, kids, or students, rather, don't learn a lot that's actually applicable to,
like, real life, or whatever job they're looking to do, even like in college. The stuff that's taught,
or rather, they're not taught things that apply to that. The stuff that they're taught
is often, like, quickly forgotten and not retained. And, oh, there was a third part,
I had this all organized. I got a little, little shuffled there before we got on the call. So,
sorry about that. Anya, she take over. Okay, I would like to also say that I do like the enterprise
of teaching. I really liked all my teachers. I really liked most of my teachers when I was going
to school. And I, I enjoy teaching, like I have three younger siblings. And, you know, I remember
teaching them about, like, the basic physics of how a seatbelt will save your life one day,
which was really fun by strapping an egg into a roller skate and rolling it into a wall.
That, so I kind of wanted to be a teacher up until the point where I didn't want to go to
college anymore. And I couldn't get a teaching job without a degree or some sort of, you know,
formal training in that. So defaulted to accounting. But the major problems with
education as they're set forth is that a lot of schooling does not seem to be about
really teaching people. And I think this was most aptly demonstrated, demonstrated recently when
Washington DC announced that they were going to have to start flunking a third of their kids
every year. Or was it more than a third of their kids? It was basically it was drastically increased
in number of kids they have to flunk, simply because they are now going to start enforcing
some of the standards that they have. And the standards are basically along the lines of if
a kid is 15 minutes late for a period, he counts as gone for the whole day. And if a kid has more
than 20% absences in a school year, then he has to be flunked. And a lot of kids in high school
there take their younger siblings to their schools first and show up late to their first period.
And so they are automatically flunked in a lot of classes. And this led to various observations
along the lines of, you know, the kids aren't really being brought there to learn in so much as
they are being corralled as a place to be kept during the day, and to be taught things like
conformity and submission, which is what employers mainly want. And on top of all that,
I think one of my major complaints about school is that I believe it's lots of times actively
psychologically harmful to people. It is socially it is almost a prison like environment, the way
the kids are set up. And I think it's in large part due to the fact that their their main criteria
is, are you there or not? The test is, you know, do you accept this as a makeshift prison for eight
hours a day? And that seems to be the most important things as long as you show up, you get kicked out
the door. And like Steven was saying, a lot of the things that kids are taught, they don't return
or retain, and they aren't really applicable. I remember seeing a statistic along the lines of
during the three months of summer vacation, kids lose like half of what they learned during the
year. And that also led to speculation like, is this because they are being taught things they
aren't ready for? Or is it a matter of, because kids are kids are just being taught to the test
to guess the teacher's password in the parlance of the rationalist community. And over the summer,
they forget the teacher's password. Is it due to fraud because their grades are being inflated at
the end of the year, so they can get moved on. And then they're kind of deflated at the beginning
of the year, so that it'll look like they've progressed more throughout the course of a year.
There's there's a lot of questions, but a lot of what the speculation comes down to is that,
look, this thing really isn't all that handy. And unless you're teaching kids to conform,
and it just seems like that is my experience too. Like I learned a lot of things in high school,
but those were all things that I really wanted to learn. And the things that I was forced to learn,
I have forgotten, even the things that I wanted to learn, I basically never used in my life,
I just really enjoyed learning them. And I would have, I would have learned them anyway,
if I had access to some sort of teachers. But the fact that everyone else in school was forced
to be there and resented being there, made it a really uncomfortable environment. And I don't
think children should be forced to be in such settings if they have better things to do with
their time. I'm sorry for that long rant there. So a lot of the things that you guys are bringing
up are quite valid and come more from the administration and the governmental standpoint,
than from the education standpoint. And this is not just speaking as a, because I basically
have a teacher's dream job. I can teach however I want. I have very small classroom size. I get to
plan a spring trip to take the kids on. In fact, we're leaving on Sunday to Kansas City.
That being said, I have visited and worked in plenty of other schools where the focus has
been shifting. And that's the good news is that educators are pushing back. Educators,
we go to school and we want to teach the content because we love it. I'm an English teacher because
I love literature. But we also want to teach applicable skills. And that's what I've been
focusing on. In fact, my last professional development class was about, they call it the
foresees, which is creative thinking, collaboration, communication, and critical thinking,
creativity, critical thinking, collaboration, communication. And that's being implemented
in classrooms across the country. And in terms of getting students, because those are the more
marketable skills, those are the skills that will actually help you become a lifelong learner.
That's the goal of most teachers, most people who are in the education business to educate,
is to help kids become lifelong learners. And that's why you have fond memories of your teachers.
And lastly, administration is also sort of making that move. I visited a public school
district in Westminster last year, which has shifted to the same style of learning that my
school uses, which is proficiency based, rather than your graded ABCD or on a 4.0 scale. You're
getting on proficiency. You show proficiency through doing the work, showing that you've mastered
a topic. And by mastering it, if that's not just spurting back the content, that's using the skills,
you have to be able to research, you have to be able to compile information, you have to be
able to write or speak about it. So that that's the good news is that a lot of places are trending
towards moving towards those skills. You say, well, kids forget it. Yeah, kids forget content.
We do too. Everyone does. Our brains don't have the space for all of it. I was a wonderful math
student. I've gone to Calc 2 by the end of high school. I can't remember how to do algebra now
because I've not used it in six years. But the more we use those skills, the more they happen.
And the summer slide happens, even if you're not teaching to the test. My co-teacher and I,
there's only two middle school teachers. He teaches math and science. I teach ELA and social
studies. We see the summer slide happen every year with almost every kid because most of them,
when they go off to summer, they don't do any academics. Their parents don't have them read
every night. They don't practice math. So these skills I have to often reteach. Here's how you
write an essay to kids who've done it with me for two years. And they're just like, oh, yeah,
I remember this now. Doesn't that mean though that writing an essay really isn't an important skill?
Well, the point of writing an essay, it's not about here's how, you know, you have to write about
the Lord of the Flies or whatnot. It's how do you take the information in your head and put it on
paper, which is a skill. You as, you know, you're on Facebook, you wanted to get this podcast together,
took you a skill, notice that here's the information I have to get across. Here's the order I'm going
to put it in. And here's how I'm going to make my sentences flow and cohesive. That's what you
were trying to teach with the essay writing or with the world reports is that in many modern
jobs, you have to do some sort of writing, some sort of oral report or presentation,
customer service, you have to be able to talk to people. That's part of the collaboration,
group work. So a lot of things assignments that we do, it's not you have to write an essay because
essays are important. You have to write an essay because the skills you're building to write it
are important. I've seen a lot of distinction being made on really all the posts I've been
reading lately between schooling and education, where the argument is that schooling is, you know,
at most, or is more of a signaling game where you're showing off rather than being taught very
much, like I can afford to sit in school and focus on just one thing for this eight hours,
I'll make a great employee. And whereas education is more about learning things and that the argument
being made is that schooling is not required for education due to, I mean, lots of kids who want to
learn things will simply learn things. The best way to learn reading for most kids is to play,
well, not anymore now that there's voice acting, but it was to play video games that required
reading because then all of a sudden they were really motivated to learn how to read. I have
learned almost everything that I have wanted to do by myself with the, you know, I think right
about sixth grade was the point where schools stopped being like really useful. Everything
before that like basic literacy and numeracy was really important and laid a good foundation,
but everything after was just fun stuff that I enjoyed learning. And I'm appreciative for that,
I really enjoyed it. But I don't think I think that anyone who wants to learn something will be
self motivated to educate themselves. And that's the best way to learn and forcing them to go to
school can like beat the joy of learning out of them. I work with middle schoolers every day of my
life pretty much. Even kids who are self motivated still have to learn how to learn. I work with
some amazingly self motivated intelligent driven eighth graders. And they still have to do the
steps in order to learn how to learn. You may have had a knack for it or an innate talent. I did
too. I was a very easy learner. Things came to me very, very easily. But a lot of these kids have
to work. They have to, they have to put the effort in in order to gain those skills. And they are
skills. And then they have to practice them over and over and over. You know, you say, well,
writing essays, what's the point of that? When I went to college in my first year, we were all
required to take a class that was basically writing essays one on one, because every class
required essay writing, even in the sciences and the STEM. And there's a lot of kids who did not,
who really struggled with that because in their schooling, I will say that they didn't practice
it much. They, they really did not learn that skill. I did. And so I had the advantage. And so
the repetition and then growing the depth is what is important. And the depth of the learning will
lead to the lifelong learning. You're lucky, not as good as that lucky. And some kids take a while
to become motivated. Some of them are really intelligent, but they just they're not motivated
until something clicks. And that happens because their brains are still developing.
The prefrontal cortex, the very front of their brain is the last thing to develop.
In fact, it's really not done developing until you're about 25 years old. And so the stuff that,
you know, we make a decision, oh, it's, we decide, I'm going to sit down and put the time into this.
They don't have that sort of decision making that they are very impulsive. That's, that's why kids,
we look at them and say, why are you making this dumb decision? They don't think through
so they don't think through the consequences. And so the same thing applies to education.
We think, well, it's obvious. If you want to learn, you just sit down and learn. But to them,
they don't put the pieces together. They don't realize, if I don't sit down and do, you know,
learn how to learn now, then I'm going to struggle later. They don't put the pieces together.
And so they need help to get there. Some of them do it faster than others.
I think I wanted to add a couple of things to that, that, yeah, just, just adding on that point
that I think a lot of kids can be like motivated to learn on their own and, you know, pick up
what they're interested in. But I think like the example that you had of, you know, being good at
writing essays from school and then having to do it in college. So school trained you well for school
in that particular regard. But like, you know, and then I guess in your professional life,
you're also probably writing essays or something because you're close to that system. But so like
the other thing that people in their rationality circles say that school is for is like domesticating
humans in the sense that our ancestors wouldn't have been good at. And we can, we can look at that
by like seeing what happens when people moved factories to other countries that didn't have
the same sort of education system. Getting somebody to sit down and do something that they
don't really want to do for eight hours a day doesn't come naturally to us. People rebel at that.
So getting good at that in school and picking up the skills to like do a job, even if it's not
what you're particularly driven to do, it's something that school does. And I don't think
