realized how little she had and how few opportunities she had by not having this.
And then they got in fights with her husband because he was illiterate and proud of it almost.
And it was like a societal thing with their family. And here's the thing, I'm an educator.
My goal is to give as much, impart as much education as I can to as many as I can. And
that's the trend with education. We're trying educators, not just across the country, but
internationally. And the administrations are starting to hop on it too. They're trying to
alleviate these problems of it's a prison. We're not actually teaching them. They're not taking
this into it. It's just basically keeping count of the young citizens in our country.
And there are people out there absolutely who really aren't going to do well in education.
They're not going to do well in high school. They're not going to go to college. They may even
drop out of high school. If you ask the Audrey, look at your class, can you point out any of your
students that really are going to benefit much of education? I say, yep, that one there. He's
not motivated. They're content doing something that doesn't require an education for their life.
And that's fine. But to say, well, some people are bored. Some of them are acting out. Some of
them aren't getting anything out of it. So let's scrap the whole thing. It's absolutely ridiculous.
Graduation rates are rising. People go into college. The numbers are rising.
The trend is positive. I was just looking before we hopped on here some essays that people wrote
about education and how it looks in 2030. And they're looking at statistics and the trends and
what education means and how we're trying to implement it. And people are really a lot of
teachers and a lot of schools are trying to make the move from what you call schooling
to education. It is highly valued. And making that move will inevitably leave some people behind.
That's what happens in a society. Not everyone's going to be on the same wavelength. But education,
the more we can provide the more different things. I say with apprenticeships, let's keep them in
school, let's have them do academics in the mornings, send them off to the apprenticeship
in the afternoon. Maybe they have two different ones every week so they can get a feel for the
different fields out there, the different trades. I'm all for access to higher education,
be it trade school, online, college, whatever we do. The more education someone has,
the more opportunities that open up in front of them. That's just the reality of the society
we live in today. I was also looking at statistics in terms of education versus annual salary or
income. And it's true. The higher education, the more likely the higher income. And that's not
all the way across the board. I'm a teacher in rural Colorado. I make very little money.
And I have a bachelor's degree. That didn't hold true in terms of the trend. But I had
opportunities. I didn't have to pursue teaching. I could have done so much else with the education
I have. A lot of people I talked to who have either, they've graduated high school and they've
gone into college, but they didn't put a degree or they didn't get to go to college.
They lament that they wanted a higher education. Again, that's not speaking for every human being.
There are those who aren't going to want it. Whether I don't, I still think 14 is too young
because I work with 14 year olds. I know them. I see how they act. I have them. I have some 14
year old eighth graders who think they're ready for high school and they go up and they all strut
about like, I'm in high school. Like, no, you're not. And the way you act, it's very, very clear.
My boyfriend teaches tech to the high schoolers and actually he teaches tech to K-12, but it's
a K-12 school. And seeing the eighth graders next to the high schoolers, it's a clear difference in
maturity and ability to sit still and focus on a task that they're interested in.
Because they love it. They love technology. They love science. They don't have the same
capacity as the 10th grade or 11th grader to sit and work on a plane for an hour and a half and
fiddle around with all the things. They're excited by the idea of it, but they don't do the work.
And that's just the degree of maturity. I have a question for you. I recall that middle school was
the worst of all the schooling years by far. And you just said that the eighth graders like are
unable to sit and focus, whereas the 10th graders don't have a problem with it.
Unless this is something that was somehow, I don't want to say beaten into them, but
taught to them in two years of schooling, do you think this is something that they learned
in two years? Or do you think more of a biological thing where they just grew up and matured to that
point in between eight and 10th grade where they could now do this? It's a mix. It's a mix.
So part of it is that the 10th grade just has the capacity to focus more.
Our middle score is we give them 10 minute breaks between each of the morning classes.
We have three morning classes. We have a 10 minute break between each of those.
They have recess still. We make sure to give them PE because they are. They have high energy.
They're emotionally, socially, still maturing, absolutely. They have the capacity to sit still.
If you walk into my classroom, and this is just between my classroom and my co-teachers,
you walk into my classroom during study hall. Everyone is silent. They're working quietly.
They're studious for an hour. They're working. They're walking to the other teacher's classroom,
and things are bouncing off the walls. It's science. It's not just my personality versus
my co-teachers and the way we run our classrooms. Now, that's not to say they're always silent
all the time. We do lots of different activities in my classroom, but the kids, that space is a
quiet space because I'm a quiet person, usually. I didn't purposely carve it out to be that way.
It just became that. I played some nice soundtracks while the kids were working,
and maybe lots of reading, and lots of note-taking. That's just the thing that I did.
Those same two eighth graders can sit in my classroom for an hour and work studiously.
Part of it is when they go upstairs, it's like physically changing places in the building,
changes the way they act. Part of that, I think, is just the excitement. They want to be in high
school, which is awesome, because they want to be there. They're bouncing. They get back in
their bouncy stage. I don't think that's two years of sit still and do nothing, because honestly,
the high schoolers are out doing. We see them running around more often than our kids are
in that building. I think it's just a case of personalities and spaces. Space actually has
a big thing. That's actually part of my professional development, is looking at
remastering classroom spaces. You have a space for conversation. You have a space for discussion.
You have a space for group work. You have a space for quiet time. Not all of us are
blessed with huge classrooms in order to make those spaces, but the spaces moving from one
place to another, even within one classroom, can actually help get your brains in certain modes.
I think probably it's just their brain mode. They're eighth graders. They're still not
as developed as a 16-year-old. Do you think the eighth graders would do better to
have some other form of schooling then, until they get to the point where it's easier for their
biology with their brain structure to sit down and do the more studious kind of work that comes
more naturally to a 16-year-old? No. I just said that they can do it very, very well.
When I say that they're emotionally, socially, what not less mature, their brains less developed,
that's just in the general, the way they act and the way they behave. Now,
I'm a middle school teacher. I hated middle school. I was unchallenged. I skipped eighth grade. I
wanted to get out of there. I hated middle school. When I went to become a teacher, I was like,
no, I'm not going to teach middle school. I hated it. I wanted to teach high school. Then they
placed me in middle school classroom, and I loved it because here's the thing with middle
schoolers is they still have the energy and the excitement elementary kids have, but they also
started to develop their own ability to think independently and think critically. They're at
that sweet spot between elementary and high school where, yes, they can sit down and study,
but they can also, you can really get them excited about something.
People say, you can't teach the crucible to middle schoolers. You can't teach Lord of the
Flies. Those are high school texts. I taught both of those to my middle schoolers because I know that
they're mentally capable of it. Did they need my help to understand a lot of it? Oh, absolutely.
Were they fired up? Oh, yeah. The kids were out there during Lord of the Flies going,
sucks to your a**mar and quoting from the book. Almost like, can we just leave us for a day
when Lord of the Flies is up? And we're like, no, because we're really responsible for you.
Well, the kids, they, and that's not to say high schoolers don't have that, but high
schoolers, especially in this day and age with the internet, they have a degree of cynicism
that the middle schoolers don't have yet. So the middle schools are the sweet spot where,
if we ask them to sit down and be quiet and focused for an hour and really put good work in,
they will. And man, they produce such good work. I should send you some of their short stories with
their names redacted sometime because they are absolutely incredible. I wish I'd recorded,
we did a model UN about climate change a couple of weeks ago. They were into it. They did the
research and they really put forth time and effort so they could talk with the other nations and make
deals. And then of course, they got really excited about it. And then they were like, no, you
betrayed us, Russia. You're low for this resolution. And they, they, they can be students, but they
can also be excited about it. And that's a, actually a fight that the high school teacher,
who is just as inspired and energetic as I am, she's really struggling with the high schoolers
because part of their being so quiet is they're also kind of surly. And they are very resentful
of the school environment. And she's trying to do everything she can to bring them back into it
and have the fun, engaging learning. And it's, it takes time. It takes lots of good teachers,
lots of years in a row for kids to get there. But I absolutely think if we have that, if we have
the ducks in a row, if we have the good teaching practices, which the teacher password, that's
bad teaching practice. And none of the teachers I work with do that because it's bad practice.
When I say the summer slide, that's not me and my co-teacher standing up in the front of the
room going, tell us what you remember. We have a, it's not really standardized tests, but we have
what's called the NWA map testing. And it could take it three times a year, once in the fall,
the winter and the spring. And it studies their growth and it looks at where their holes are and
where we can fill those in. It's pretty stress-free. You know, the kids sit down and they do it and
they're fine. It's not a stressful test. It's data for us to see where they're going. And that's how
we can see the summer slide. And then we don't teach that to that test. I have no idea what's on it.
I teach what I teach. And usually because I teach skills, I teach the kids how to,
how to research, how to read, how to analyze, how to understand what they're reading.
Because that's the important part of ELA. It's not, you have to read Shakespeare and understand it.
It's you have to read and understand what they're saying to you. Look at the bias. Look at the,
you know, look at the author's tactics. Are they using fallacies? Are they using these sort of
literary language in order to try to persuade you? Because especially with the internet nowadays,
with so many people spouting so much stuff to read, they have to learn how to sit through the
bullshit. I have, I have two questions for you, if you wouldn't mind. Then I have three.
And then you have three. Okay. Do you want to do yours first or?
Well, first one's more of a correction.
Audrey, I just realized I think I called you to autumn at least twice. All I see on Skype is AV.
And when I move my mouse, I see Enya Sparadski and then AU on the top. And the only other I need
AU I know is an autumn. So sorry if I called you the wrong name. I apologize for that.
And if I do it again, don't hesitate to call me out on it.
The question was going to just be, I think just out of high note, I imagine that anybody,
I guess rather many people in the US who are listening to this are going to hear your style
of teaching and be crazy jealous. Because I think that the way that, unless, I mean, I just
realized I graduated 10 years ago, which makes me feel super old. But unless things have changed
a lot in the last decade, I think the way that you're doing it is highly atypical, super desirable
and awesome. But I think it's rare. Would you agree with that? So the way I'm teaching, and that's
the big reason I'm teaching at the school I am, is because I have ultimate freedom. Every teacher
that I work with or have talked to, they want to teach this way. They want this. Now, I teach
to standards. You know, you can ask me what standards are you doing? And I can point out what
ones we're doing. And fortunately, a lot of districts are turning away from the common core.
What's the word? Script, which I actually, I have taught that before. I've taught
common core both with the script and then going off script, if you will. And a lot of districts
allowing teachers to teach the content, but their own way. So it's been kind of a weird decade in
that we're trying to figure out how to have standards and how to have standardized education
while not stifling the educators. And I think, again, I'm an optimist, but I think positive
trends. Teachers are being given some more leeway now as we go on. But almost every teacher that
wants to be in that built in those buildings, they want to teach the way I teach.
Okay, yeah, that's that's sort of the answer I expected. But I'm happy to hear that it's it
seems like it's getting more and more common. Because I mean, a lot of the
my memory of childhood, it's pretty fuzzy. But I mean, I remember just a lot of like covering
the same material in history class for like five years, you know, just start, you know,
basically, we do like a few weeks on, you know, pre American history, then the rest was just like
whatever, revolutionary war throughout World War One. And we just do that every year with
different teachers. It was weird. And I think I went to what's considered a good high school.
And my high school history teacher, I guess, didn't totally break that trend. He was awesome.
But did you observe? Yeah, I guess I did you observe the same sort of thing in the public
schools where you were observing or teacher assisting Ting or wherever you were doing,
or were those more less ideal? So it depends on the school I was in. And a couple of the schools
in upstate New York, it was more that teachers had the freedom in the school I student taught in,
they actually kind of used me as a guinea pig, because they would just get in the scripts for
Common Core. So I taught one class by the script and the other class, where I took the script,
and I cut it up, and I repasted it and did what I wanted with it. And I basically reported back
to my cooperating teacher and said, Here's what I did and how I did it. And here's how effective
it was. And she took that back to the administration. I think that they're not on script. They were
kind of in that gray area if they weren't sure how to implement the Common Core yet.
In the schools I visited in Westminster, they absolutely were trying because they were trying
to get the proficiency based learning. So they and they're much, much bigger school and school
district. There are limits. Now, part of the reason I can do what I do is because I have
12 kids in my two classes. And so it's a lot easier to do it with a fair number of kids.
That being said, there are plenty of teachers in plenty of districts and the ones I visited
kind of hold true where they're doing their best to get that sort of engagement and that sort of
comprehensive education to as much as they can. So is it harder in bigger districts? Absolutely.
Is it possible? Yeah. I had another quick question. You mentioned earlier that
a lot of like more and more kids are seeking higher education. They want to go to college.
What's your impression of why that is? Well, a big part of it is they need it.
In the time and unfortunate circumstances, a lot of jobs nowadays, you need a college degree
to get your foot in the door. And I sort of hate that. I hate how a lot of the millennials and
younger generation are sort of being forced into such horrible loans just to get a job.
I'm a huge advocate for trade schools and associate's degrees and community colleges and
other things to get a higher education if one is inclined to do so. And so part of its necessity
and part of it is kids want to. I have middle schoolers talking to me about they're applying
to these special high schools because they're planning on going to these certain colleges or
applying around to colleges. And they're excited. They want to do it. And of course,
you know, I probably have a very high degree of highly motivated kids
percentage wise in my classroom. But they want to get the most education they can. And I think
that that's sort of a trend across the country is a lot of kids see, A, I need this in order to
get the sort of job I want and B, I kind of want this. It's education is such a valuable tool.
That's really what it is. It's a tool in order to get what we need and what we want.
Yeah, I loved being at school, especially like university. I mean, I think I just I have like
this this thing that lights up in me. And it's like the whatever my
the cultural descendant of like Plato's Academy, just like this, when people are coming to acquire
