that there are programs like yours and that that sort of movement is getting more traction.
Because I feel like all the floor is better in that environment. I'm not the kind of kid that
could be cut loose and learn my own thing because I would have stayed at home and played video games
all day. But I needed some structure. I needed some corralling. But I didn't need the short
leash that I had for my first 10 years in school. So anyway, that's my long way of saying thanks.
And this was a lot of fun. Yeah, I totally agree. And you know, I well, okay, I don't totally agree.
But I do agree that if I were to have kids, I would like for you to you or someone like you
to be their teacher. Because, you know, that sounds like the sort of way to go forward if I were to
ever put them in any sort of real school. Because again, it's the system that I have issues with.
And God, did you see that thing about they're trying to pass a lot of make it illegal for
Colorado teachers to strike? Yeah, that's that. Yeah, that is I mean, I understand that once
someone is a teacher, they've invested years of their life into this and it's their passion. But
so you can't just quit. But I would I would strongly want to quit. And I don't see how
they're going to have any teachers in the future. I mean, telling someone you can't not work is
that's basically slavery, right? Who wants to sign up for a job where you are enslaved?
Yeah. Sure. I mean, I agree. I overall, I love the concept of education, and I love the trends
going forward. And I agree, there's problems in administration in the system. There's problems
in my own administration that have made me look at my job and go, What have I gotten myself into?
But I don't know, I'm hopeful overall. I think we're going to iron out the kinks, maybe not
by the time our kids, if any of us have kids or grown up, but hopefully in the next 50 years.
Oh, God, that's depressing. How many millions of children have to be sacrificed?
That sounds super reassuring. I mean, granted, it'll suck for the next, you know,
while but if things are on their way up the whole time. I mean, the other message could be that
things are going to get worse until everybody is just miserable. So if people in the industry are
confident that things are getting better, that makes me happy. That's true. Getting better is
definitely better than getting worse. And let me say that 50 year timeline is not a
in my mind, that's more every school's implementing all these things. They have great
educators across the board. Like that's that's what I'm thinking in that timeline. It's going to
take a long time to get all that stuff in place. But I'm hoping that that stuff will be put in
place very throughout and tested and changed and growing and evolving. And I think it will
because it is so it sounds like charter schools are much better options for kids than public
schools at this point. Would you agree with that depends on the charter school? And keep in mind,
mine is a public charter school. We are under the district umbrella. And so we do have some
limitations. But part of our charter, it also gives us some freedoms. I would say, you know,
if there's any parents listening in and they say, well, charter schools automatically better, you
have to look at the schools themselves, look at the kids are coming out of it, look at the educators
in it, look at what their their statements are with the programs that they're running and the
things that they're offering. It's really going to depend district by district and school by school.
Would you support like the the the what is it the voucher thing that they've been talking about
lately where if someone doesn't want to take their kids to public schools, they can get a voucher to
help offset the cost of a private or a charter school? I mean, yes and no. Well, on the surface,
it sounds kind of nice. At the same time, the current administration is putting when you put
all the money towards the public the private schools. And that's absolutely abhorrent and cannot
happen. Because the majority of kids are in public schools. And even if parents want them to go to
a nicer school, there's limitations on transportation is limitations on being able to pay for stuff.
For example, in my own district, the the public school just down the road, they have a bus that
can take kids to and from they have a breakfast and a lunch program. And parents often choose that
because they they they have to work and they can't deal with those things for their kids.
Whereas at the charter school kids have to bring their own lunches, they have to have breakfast
beforehand and parents must provide transportation. So it's it's not as easy as well if they want a
better school and the voucher is going to help them. There's lots of factors to put in there.
And I don't want money diverted away from public schools when they're already so struggling to
have funding to get what the kids need. I understand what you're saying. But I think if the public
schools are doing so poorly, it would I would rather like even very low low scale private
schools show up ones that only charge you know them 2000 a year and aren't frills or anything,
but simply provide an alternative that you know you can put your kid here for for a year instead
for that $2,000. So at least there'd be an option. Again, there's lots of things going to that and
big reason public schools suck right now is because there's no funding in order to help get better.
A lot of these programs I'm talking about those take money. It takes money to bring in people
to train the teachers. It takes money to get the curriculum going. It takes money to get the programs
online going. And if they don't have that money, they're stuck. And so it unfortunately does come
down no matter how inspired the education the teachers and the administration are. If they
don't have the money to do what they want to do, it's just not going to happen.
I will say one thing that I think is a really useful service of public schools is that it
inculcates a shared culture among everyone in the nation, which I think is a valuable service.
And I think there's a lot to be said for for, you know, some cultures help help societies
more than others. And I think that is why there were so many schools about what can and can't be
taught in schools. And the push for school desegregation was all to impose the sorts of
culture that we want on literally everyone in our society. So we all have that shared common
bedrock. And I think that's why schools are often such a, you know, battleground for activists,
because it does determine what the culture of the next generation is going to be, at least to some
extent. Yeah, I agree. And I'd also want to remind us that this compulsory round, you know,
all around education is fairly new in terms of human history. It's only been, you know,
a century or two that we've had this sort of thing. So, you know, we talk about the pros
and cons and whatnot, but we have a much more educated society now than we've ever had before.
And just like society and technology have grown and changed and usually gotten better,
I think that's just going to be the way that this happens here. It's still kind of a baby, really.
Previous generations and societies haven't had to figure out how to educate without
falling into all of these pitfalls, you know? I do think basic numeracy and literacy are just so
amazingly valuable and important for everyone in society that, you know, everyone should be required
to go to school at least through fifth grade to learn those things. And after that, I mean,
I heard just today that 16% of adults can't read above a fourth grade level anyway. So,
I mean, it seems like that's all you really need. It's a function and anything above that would,
I would be more okay with it being voluntary, either, you know, find your own way in life or
keep going to school and keep expanding yourself. My only thought would be if we take that path,
it's going to, everything comes out of money. It's going to divert funding because we have fewer
kids in the schools and the ones who are there and want this opportunity are going to get fewer
opportunities. The opportunity is going to close if we take them away. You know, I would be okay
with continuing to pay the same amount of schooling taxes that I have now, even when schools are
voluntary and attendance drops by half. I'd be happy for everyone to suddenly have double the
funding per student. That would be great. Unfortunately, like states like Colorado,
where citizens vote on whether or not to fund schools, they often vote not to. So,
even if those like you are for it, a lot of people aren't. And so, it's just such a
hard line to balance. Yeah, but their taxes wouldn't go up at this point. It would just
be that the number of students needed to be serviced by each tax dollar would go down, although
they would vote to give less for further local schools. Yeah, it's weird that people don't want
to fund their schools in their community. I think, well, all my kids are already out of school,
what do I care? It's like, well, you want educated neighbors, right? But this sounds like it's kind
of, maybe beyond the scope of education. Right. Okay, well, thank you for joining us.
Yeah, thanks for having me. Cool. Yeah, thanks. Before you go, is there anything you want to
plug or anything at all that we can put on the website for you? Any cool, whatever links to,
I don't know, anything? I said that really eloquently.
You could have used some more education, Steven.
I mean, I don't really plug stuff on a public servant.
I thought I'd ask, if anything comes up, you're welcome to send it our way.
I mean, if you guys find any charities or anything for like any
movements to fund schools and for education, that'd be great.
Alrighty then. We'll try and find something. Awesome. Thanks. And I'm going to log off so I can go
hang with the child. Cool. Have a good time. All right. Bye. Bye. Thanks again so much. Have a good one.
And now on to listener feedback, the listener feedback portion of the show.
I'm going to say first that I don't really have any listener feedback to read. I have one from
way long ago, which I will touch on. But I have been extremely busy. I was...
Well, the audience, I'm assuming, noticed that I was gone for one of the episodes recently because
I just could not fit it in with everything that I was doing. But I bought a new place,
which I had to do major renovations on before I could move in. And then the building that it's
in caught fire. And it didn't actually damage my unit at all. But it put me way behind schedule.
And then I had to go to Los Angeles for a week long workshop and award ceremony since I managed to
win one of the Writers of the Future awards for this year. And that was... Yeah, you did.
Yeah, that was a fucking amazing experience. I wrote up a whole big blog post about that.
But basically, I just had absolutely no time at all. And I haven't had time to go back and look at
the comments or listen to feedback for the last two episodes. So I apologize. I'm only going to
have one really old one. That's totally fine. I think I will... I had a couple of good ones in here,
but one of them will take a while to cover. And I want to give it my best. And I'm actually kind
of burnt out. It's like 9.30 and I'm old. So like 5.30 this morning, which is super dumb.
So yeah, I will save those. I did have a... I don't know what we're going to call it, our
whatever this week and rationality thing that we're wanting to plug.
So I'll have one of those. But yeah, I'm ready when you guys are. Or rather, when you are.
Okay, go ahead.
Oh, I mean, if you wanted to do the... Well, let's do the feedback thing. And then, yeah.
Okay. The one feedback that I had from way back was from episode 50, Approaching Rationality with
Kyle Moore. Eddie says, Inyash made the claim that the CDC has killed four more people than it has
saved, which I found to be an outrageously unqualified claim, especially coming from you guys,
especially on this podcast. And I wanted to say, holy shit, if I said CDC, I am extremely sorry.
And I want to walk that back as far as possible because I love the CDC. They have all my hearts.
They managed to fucking cure polio and smallpox and, oh my god, JD Oni's amazing blog post,
500 million, but not one more, which is just... It's fantastic. It is a classic in rationalism.
The CDC does great work and I love them. So if I said CDC, I apologize. What I meant to say was FDA.
And I do think the FDA is on net negative. I think they do good things with food safety,
which is nice. But the amount of delays and rejections of beneficial drugs and just the sheer
amount of money that has been poured into getting a few drugs to market and stops any other drugs
that are less profitable than that being even researched is just a damn disgrace. And I think
that they should not be nearly, not even to one-tenth of the level, as restrictive on drugs as they are.
It's like we should have a food administration and a drug administration.
Yes. And then we should murder the drug administration.
Yeah. My Air Libertarian agrees with you. And my Air like... I don't know. I imagine that's
something very eloquent at this late. Part of me thinks that that could go badly.
You want some... Well, in some of my moods, I want some control on what hits the shelves.
But to have... What is it? Something like 10 or 15 years between... We think this works to work
and hit the shelves at Walgreens? Yeah. That's sort of a huge drag.
After waiting for five goddamn years for vasogel, I just finally went and got a vasectomy because I
realized it is not going to happen in my in my reproductively productive lifetime.
Vasogel, was that some sort of male contraceptive?
Yeah. Yeah. It was basically like the male equivalent of the IED where they put some things
in your vest efferents and it prevents the sperm from going through. And it's reversible. And they
just... Ouch. Yeah. Yeah. I just never got around to you, to approving it.
Huh. That's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I could see that that'd be... I guess,
man, I'm not feeling it. I hear what you're saying and that sounds good.
I think I used all my brain juice. I was trying to... With our guests, I didn't know how much
preamble you gave her on where we were coming from. And then I think I noticed pretty quickly that
like her tone said, like, I feel ambushed. And I'm like, oh, shit.
I was trying to... Well, I did tell her that I'm rather against schooling the way it is and that
there would be a lot of, you know, I dislike it and let's start a fight. So I think she was
ready for the pushback she was about to get. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure I should have asked about that.
We kind of started a few minutes late. Yeah. No. I think it was fun. I agree with you on most
everything that you were saying, except I felt like we got bogged down a couple of times. It was
fun because we really disagree. So I had a... What were we going to call it? Our whatever rationally
interesting thing every two weeks? We don't want to completely rip off Julia Gayliff's
rationally speaking pick. Okay. I can't call it the Beijing conspiracy pick. That sounds too
copyright infringement-y. Can we call it the Beijing conspiracy choice? What's really close to pick?
All right. The conspirators will come up with something by the time this episode...
Well, I think it's going to be funny. Yeah. In two weeks, we'll have something decent.
So this was a... There was a fun case in the, I don't know, the history of the rationality movement
where Eleazar Kowski was responding to the charge that like... Basically,
the Neil DeGrasse Tyson charge, which he has changed his mind on after listening to Eleazar
Kowski on St. Mary's podcast, that yeah, he was at some sort of panel. He grabbed a microphone
and he was talking about how, hey, I heard this podcast and changed my mind. So that's kind of cool
because his position was the fairly standard thing that it's easy enough to keep your AI
boxed. And by that, it means like, don't plug it into the internet and like, just talk to it. And
if it seems evil, you just, you shoot it with a shotgun or you unplug it. Yeah. Or like you said,
if it goes evil, you just throw a glass of water on it. Yes. So that used to be Tyson's stance and
that's a not uncommon thing to encounter. And Steve Kowski said, all right, cool. You know what?
Why don't you play the role of the AI researcher? I'll play the role of the AI,
give me two hours to convince you to let me out of the box because you've got to give one to prove
the point that if you're encountering something that's smarter than you who wants to be let out,
humans aren't immune from like unwillingly being persuaded, right? Brain hacking. So
the charge was accepted. And under the under the terms that I think that the winner would get 10
bucks or something, and they couldn't talk about what happened. And it turned out that
you've got $10. That's all everyone knows. And so the moderator of whatever forum this was,
because this was the early days of the internet said, Hey, I'm calling bullshit. Let's do this.
Kowski did it again. And one again in this time 20 bucks. And so
there are speculations of balance about how he manages to do this. The only hint he would say
was that there were no tricks. I just did it the hard way. All of the ways that I could think
of to do it were like tricks. You're like, I'll give you $20 after this. If you give me $10 now
and say, and you know, let people think I won or really cheat and like kidnap their children and
say, look, you gave your kids back if you'd let me win this conversation or something, right?
Or do it on the case of like, think about what this will do for like AI safety research if people
think that if people think that that, you know, this is a threatening problem and I win this or
something. So anyway, I found the case online. I was talking to coworkers about this and I was
googling AI box to send them something. And now I'm finding the link on what looks like lesser
wrong, but it is less wrong. It looks way different than it used to. Whatever it is, the link will
