be on the website. Yeah, less wrong. Actually, lesser wrong has been moved over fully to less
wrong recently. So now what was less wrong is a port of lesser wrong.
Well, I guess I like the name more, but I'm gonna have to get used to the new format because
googling now looks different. So that's cool to know. Yeah, well, I mean, less wrong as it was
was basically just an archive. And now it is an archive plus all this other new interesting
discussion that is happening again. It's alive. Yay. So anyway, this this post is called how to
how to win the AI box experiment sometimes. And basically, this guy and his friend did this. And
the the person playing the AI got out. And they published their their dialogue in a pretty ugly
reading format. But I read through the whole thing because it was really interesting. Yeah. And
he talks about like the setup, the response afterwards, and like how he felt when the whole
thing was going on and after. And there are some constraints that some people think it doesn't
doesn't quite pass. But rather than it's not representative, but whatever, I think it is
considered a win. I mean, he let the AI out of the box at the end. Yeah, but they were like,
they set up like a specific role playing thing that someone challenged that this isn't exactly
indicative of like how it would go. It's a long fun post. And I strongly suggest that before you
read through the text exchange of how they have how he did this, to spend, you know, the good
rationalist five minutes by a clock at least, thinking of how you would do this. I threw out
some ideas earlier, but there are other ways. And this guy went around that I would never have
tried. I thought it was really interesting. And so I had to share this, I found this a few months
ago or a couple months ago. And that's actually why I wanted to bring up like the, oh, that and
we did the episode on keeping up with the rationalists. But anyway, this is a lot of fun. Strong
recommend to check this out. And the AI box experiment was, to me, one of the like fun
intro topics, especially if AI comes up, which it often does no daily wise with our coworkers.
I'm being funny. Yeah, you don't talk about AI like every other week at your work.
Actually, I don't because I'm an accountant, but since you're a programmer, I thought maybe you
did. No, I was, that's why I realized you didn't laugh. Yeah. Yeah. I was like, that's kind of cool.
I wish I worked in a, you know, programmer's office place. So what do they call places where
programmers are crowds like the stables? Is that it? Yeah, that sounds right. So there's a,
actually, they sent out a course that only everybody in the company at stake or at least
every dev. I think it's everybody in the company. It's a 50 minute course on AI and machine learning.
And this was like the company all hands webcast thing. I call it the five minute hate because
it makes me think of 984. But they, they're like, oh, yeah, we're gonna take this because this is
like this whole new up and coming thing. I'm like, oh, fuck off. And it was a 15 minute course. And
I kind of joked. And I was like, oh, yeah, shit, call you a lot musk. This is easy enough to learn
in an hour. We're all going to die. But anyway, so you mentioned that our people talking about it.
The answer is weirdly yes, but not in anything that has anything to do with any of our jobs
whatsoever. So okay, so boring, we can cut that. No, no, no, how about for just me and our Patreon
subscribers? Oh, ho, you give us a spoiler and tell us how, how, how it happened? Or is that,
is that without ruin everything? We can have, we can have it out there. And then I guess our
Patreon supporters could go in and find it if they want to spoiler. But I still encourage them to,
to go through and read this. But basically what he did was okay, this next one, this next part is
only for our Patreon subscribers. Haha, we now have inclusive content. For the rest of you,
just go and read it because that's what Stephen recommends doing anyway. He says it's much more
fun to read through it yourself. Okay, I also say that for our Patreon supporters. But if you
guys want a quick spoiler. And at the end, the guy is just like, I'm letting out of the box.
Holy shit. The, the, the person playing the AI when he was talking about it. He said that he
just sat there, he was sweating. Like this whole thing, he got really into it. And that he was
there sweating and shaking. And he's like, I thought he was fucking with me, or he was going to be
like, haha, or something. But it blew my fucking mind. I like reading this is kind of a trip. It
was fun. So, so really, it's important to actually read it through and get like all the emotion in
it. It's like, like a good story. Someone can summarize the story to you. And it doesn't count
at all. You know, you actually have to watch Star Wars in order to get Star Wars, you know?
Yeah, or Infinity War, I've now seen three times this outstanding.
Oh, holy shit. Okay.
But, oh, that's nothing for me. But, you know, it was, I saw it a couple times last week and then
once today. So, I guess, I guess Star Wars is a better example. It's more like, it's more like
the matrix. No one can be told what the matrix is. You have to see it for yourself.
That's actually, that's not bad. Yes, I mean, that's fair. I did say to them like 90 minutes,
unless they're really fast reading or at skimming. Reading the post is, the post itself is pretty
long. And then the text exchange is fairly long as well. So, yeah, well, I mean, it was a two hour
text exchange. If you just wanted the, well, it's surprising, you know, they'd spend a minute or two
between things. So, it was only a few hundred lines long. Oh, okay. That's not bad at all.
Specifically, it was in lines because I had to open it in like a non-center text editor to
be able to format it so I could read it. Okay. That might have been a Mac problem or something,
or however I downloaded it, but whatever it was. Anyway, so, yeah, if you want to save some time,
that's how it worked out. But it was a lot of fun, stronger command, and that's that.
Cool. Thank you. That was awesome. Yeah, you bet. Okay. Oh, and to our audience, thanks for listening.
Bye. Thanks, guys. Oh, wait, hold on. We've got two more things. Oh, yes, we do. We have to thank
people. We've got to thank, we've got to thank our sound engineer for bringing this sweet, sweet
audible chocolate to your ears, Kyle Moore. And Enios, do you want to thank our Patreon supporter
this week? Sure. I can totally do that. This week, we would like to thank Nick Lowry. Have we
thanked Nick Lowry before? And you're asking the wrong person. My name sounds familiar. You know
what? Maybe you got to think twice. This week, we'd like to thank our Patreon supporter, Nick
Lowry, for helping make this possible. Bring this to you guys. Yeah. Thanks, Nick.
Thanks, Nick. You rock. Yeah. All right. And with that, we can call it an episode.
Cool. I have a good one. All right, thanks. You too, man. Bye-bye.
