knowledge, and I just have this big romantic idea about it. But I think, like, on the other side
of the client, my inner Robin Hansen would probably say that, you know, kids, kids want to go to
college, like you'd said, many of them, because they know that they need different jobs, because
they need to signal to their employers, their potential future employers that look, I'm the
kind of person who can go to college. And so like, yes, I got an A in biology, I realized this is
an accounting position, but I got an A plus in biology. And like their accountant, their their
person, the HR people at the accounting position that they want to work for, they don't care that
they know biology, but they care that this is the kind of person who can get an A in biology,
especially like a hard, you know, a tough side or tough subject. Because hey, this kind of person,
this tells us, you know, not that they learned anything there that's useful to us, but it shows
us that they can buckle down, learn hard material and excel at that. I think the
I'm sorry, go ahead. Okay. Well, I was just going to say that,
in part of it, yes, they can sit down and get that A, but a lot of colleges too are turning
towards, I mentioned the four C's earlier. And that's a big thing employers are looking for is
can, you know, can our this candidate collaborate? How is their critical thinking? Can are they
problem solvers? How, how would they communicate? And that's a big benefit, at least at my college,
and I know there's other colleges out there that have a focus on teaching these skills
through the means of the content. And so I'm hoping that that's the trend that goes
both in secondary and higher education is the workplace skills that they're really looking
for. I think that's the big reason a college degree holds so much weight is because it shows,
A, this person can buckle down and get the work done when they need to, and B, more than likely
this person has had to collaborate with peers, more than likely they've had to do some sort of
leadership in either a TA or other position, and so on and so forth. And that's the attraction
of a degree. And it can go beyond that too, like certain colleges with certain fields,
like my college was a leader in education. And so if I wanted to stay in New York state and
be a teacher there, I would have had an advantage because my college was well known out of reputation
for spitting out good teachers who were not just good at their job, but motivated, they were
knowledgeable, they had all the different trainings they need. So I think that's also part of it.
It's not just the, you got an A in biology, good job. It's everything that comes with that,
that I think is attractive to employers. For sure. I didn't mean to push past the other,
I guess, like to say that it signals the one thing that I said, doesn't mean that it doesn't
also signal a bunch of other stuff. You're right. If it's a more collaborative subject, like the
lab component maybe to a lecture course or something, typically you're doing that with other
people. And if you can't work with people, you won't get an A in that lab component, right?
So yeah, that's valuable to employers too. I think what I was trying to get at with my
Hansonian lens was that depending on the student and depending on the subject and all that, but I
think he might say that many of them much of the time are less concerned about learning anything
in college. They're more concerned about like how will this look to my prospective employers
with the entire signaling package this will give. Oh yeah, absolutely. I mean, when I was,
that's the entire reason I worked at that school in London. I had to study abroad there for four
months and we got to choose a four-week internship and we saw it to interview and like be chosen back.
It wasn't like a here you go thing. But I was like, hmm, I want to go into teaching. I'd love to do
an internship that's a bit more fun and breezy because it's the end of my time in London. But no,
I have to do this at the school because that's going to look great on a resume. And that's why
people do internships. That's why people do work studies and whatnot is it's all for that resume.
I was just going to say we are passing the one hour mark, so we're going to have to start wrapping
it up pretty soon. I did. Well, okay, two sort of questions. The first one I noticed when you
talked about the high schoolers that you said that they were kind of a surly and sort of
dissatisfied with school. Do you know what caused them to become that way?
I wouldn't say it was dissatisfied and surly with school. It was more with the life. And
I think a big part of that is especially as kids are going into high school,
they have more access, they have more access towards the points of view. That's very, you know,
the echo chamber is a real thing because these kids who are the cynical surly ones,
they're like that with everything, not just with school. And in part of that, I'm putting up on
the internet, part of that is also home life, part of that is their life circumstances situations.
Again, in my small town, the feral kids phenomenon is real. High schoolers who are kind of homeless,
or their parents just kind of leave them to themselves for eight months is real.
So, high schoolers who are going to analyze the world around them, analyze their home situations,
and the questioning that began in middle school really becomes a deeper questioning. It becomes
resentment sometimes. It can become all sorts of things. And that's because as they're growing up
and as they're trying to become who they are or trying to figure out who they are,
it goes so much further beyond just the school. And that's probably when I say the brain development,
the emotional development, depending on certain factors in childhood that can hinder that,
depending on if the child is using substances, that will absolutely hinder that. In fact,
the high school, my high school is not much as mine, but I know high schools sometimes have
problems with kids smoking weed. As much as I'm an advocate for legalizing, it's just like alcohol,
if you start it too young and use it too frequently, it can definitely have an impact on your
development in a very much still growing body. So, yeah, it's a mix of factors. Some of it might
definitely be something that was filed by a child.
Okay. So, I got now, I guess, sort of a personal question for both of you. I personally
felt lucky to have survived high school. And I know that part of that was just the immense
depression I was going through at the time. But did either of you have a similar sort of experience?
Do you want to go first? You're on me too.
I don't mind either way. I guess my quick version is that, I mean, I think, yeah,
high school for me was when life started finally getting good. I mean, you know,
kid life was fun too, but the first time I found instructors that were, like,
if not, you know, PhD experts, although some of them were, they were very knowledgeable
with what they were teaching. They weren't the ones who were like, oh, yeah, I'm teaching
you Spanish and junior high, and I'm two semesters ahead of you at CSU when I take it out at night.
Or something like that, right? So, I had really good educators that, like,
being the super annoying student I was, I'd ask tons of questions, not to, like,
try and stump the teacher or be a dick, because I was really curious. And in elementary and junior
high, I had some good junior high teachers, but especially in elementary school, I would just
get told to sit down and shut up. And they, I think they felt like they're, you know, like,
some smart ass kid is trying to make them look like a fool or something. But in high school,
I, every teacher I had knew a ton, and it was awesome. I mean, at least all the ones I remember,
there are some that sucks, but all of my favorite classes, Ecology, Biology, Chemistry, History,
they were all just really gung-ho about their subjects, and they wanted us to be gung-ho about
it. So. My teachers were all good. It was more the social and psychological situation for me.
Oh, yeah. Socially, my life was terrible until five years ago, so I can't, I can't really compare
there. I think psychologically, I did okay, but I don't think that has anything to do with school.
But yeah, Audrey, what's your, what's your thought?
So I, I, education was my solace in high school. I definitely turned to my teachers
as a source of not just education, but of social comfort. I really struggled in high school socially.
I had, quote unquote, friends, but they weren't very, they weren't very good friends. I definitely,
like a lot of high schoolers out there, I struggled with depression. That turned into some
anxiety stuff going into college and blossomed into more during college. But
you know, there's lots of things going on. So I don't know, high school, I don't look back in it
with any sort of fondness. I love the things I learned. I love the things I did. I was in theater,
and we put on some amazing productions that came with the consequence of
uh, severe anxiety about the productions because our director was a,
I didn't know the correct term for her. She was a control freak perfectionist who basically lived
through the students in our production. So there's, there's just high pressure and violence.
Can I add one thing is I want to point out that I, I had a few friends in high school and a couple
of them listened to the show. So I don't want to dismiss the idea that I, I didn't have friends.
I made them great long-term life, lifelong friends there. And the other thing relating to the last
thing you said, am I alone in suspecting that that trope is super common among like junior high
and high school music and band and theater teachers? I found those are the ones that took
their job the most seriously. I took, I took choir through junior high and my teachers there
seemed to think that they were teaching, you know, the, the New York choir, I was going to say
New York orchestra, but, um, you know, they're like, they were preparing for the Olympics. Like
they thought this was the most serious thing. And I mean, I get like taking your job seriously,
but they seemed way invested. Like, you know, getting mad purple in the face and slamming
their fist on a piano and saying, damn it, Zuber. Um, so anyway, is that a, yeah,
anyone else agree with that trope?
I, I never.
That wasn't the choir teachers. I had very chill choir teachers. I could not survive
both the choir and the theater with such divas.
I didn't have the confidence for theater. That sounds like a lot of fun.
Yeah. Oh, it was, it was a ton of fun and looking back, I'm very happy with it,
but during it, it was super stressful not to mention almost all the theater kids were
all involved in sports and like AP or IB and academics. And there's just a high pressure
environment. And I don't think I even have a single high school friend still on Facebook.
I don't know the last time I spoke to any of them. Um, so for me, educationally wonderful,
everything else pretty shit. Yeah. I, I mean, I had a similar thing. I really enjoyed the
education parts of things. I loved learning stuff, but, uh, I mean, I do still have some
friends from high school, my petro life partner, Drake, you know, I knew from high school and
a lot, a lot of, there are some good relationships that came from that, but overwhelmingly high
school was a horrific experience. Uh, when I wasn't actually learning things and from almost
everyone I've talked to, they all say basically almost all of them say basically the same thing
that I feel lucky to have survived. And I mean, most people do survive it obviously,
but I think it's a really telling thing that everyone feels that way. And I personally believe
it is in large part because schools are structured very much in this prison like way where everyone
has to be there even when they're bored and they don't want to be there. And there's no way to
distinguish yourself in any objective way. So it all comes down to social games to signaling
and to having to tear down other people in order to build up your own social capital. And it's,
I mean, I hate drawing the analogy back to prisons, but it is kind of like a prison environment where
you form these clicks and it's all just about dominating other people. And I think that this
is a horrible thing that we subject almost the entirety of our population to during their formative
years. It's, I love the education aspects, but school has got some serious social issues that
I don't think we should put kids through. I think for me, one of the weirdest things was like
the monitored bathroom breaks. And I totally get like why that has to be a thing because otherwise,
you know, if there was no limit on when you could leave the room, unless you had mature kids,
like in high school, they started cutting back on that. But like in junior high, they're really
cracking down because kids would just take off and leave the room and come back 20 minutes later,
but it's a 50 minute class and they missed, you know, a typical fraction of it. But like,
you know, you've got three bathroom breaks that you can use in my class for the semester.
And, you know, so, you know, the analogy to prison, I'm not sure what bathroom breaks are
like in prison, but you can probably pee more or less when you want if you're not otherwise
occupied. But, you know, things like that, I think just kind of give this air of no autonomy.
You know, you don't have the freedom to relieve yourself without permission.
And with that, if you do it too many times in a semester, you incur penalties for participation
credits or something, right? That part was super weird. I mean, I agree that some of the structural
things can change. But I think a big thing is that the social aspects, a lot of that's out of the
control of the adults or the situation. And part of that is kids learning how to interact with each
other, how to make this a thing. And that's just what's going to happen even if you have the most
perfect environment, very low stress, you know, full autonomy, yada, yada, yada, there's going to be
conflict, there's going to be drama, there's going to be hurt feelings, because kids are still
figuring that out. The kids have very little empathy skills. The empathy is part of that
brain development that's coming along. They're very me centered. They're very, you know, a lot of
them aren't very observant. They don't, I mean, and part of my job as middle school teacher with
my middle schoolers is helping with the drama. Now, I don't step in all the time. A big thing
that I feel is that kids kind of have to learn how to interact with each other themselves.
Because we don't have someone looking over our shoulders in our adult lives to say,
now you have to go and apologize because you did x, y, z. But when it explodes in something big,
then we can step in and sit down with them and say, okay, here's what went wrong. You didn't
notice it, but they were feeling this and teaching them how to communicate. I think that's something
that could be implemented in more schools for sure. But there's going to be drama. I mean, again,
I teach 22 kids. I have five eighth grade girls. There's drama. There's no clicks in my school.
There's no, I don't have enough kids to have clicks. There's not a big like sports atmosphere.
There's not a competition atmosphere because we don't really post grades. And it's not like,
you know, all these kids got A's so they get to go out early or whatnot. We don't have any of that.
But the drama still happens because their personalities conflict. They're learning who
they are. They're learning how to be with each other. Friendships, people grow and change. And
kids who are best friends in elementary have always been finding their personalities are
clashing. They don't know how to deal with that. That's going to happen in the teenage years because
of all the development and all the growth that's happening. So I think the educational system as
a whole and parents as well, the adults in the community and the kids lives can do a better
job at both holding their hands and kind of letting them go to learn how to deal with it
themselves. It's a delicate balance. And there's times when my co-teacher look at me and go,
oh gosh, do we need to interfere with this one? Or can we let them deal with it themselves? And
will it go poorly if we do one or the other? It's very, it's a hard dynamic. But the social
aspects, it's more complex than just shoving them all in a building and they hate it.
There's so much going on there.
That makes sense.
We are at a little over a minute, an hour and 15. Is there any final things that any of you
wanted to say? Thank you for bringing me on. Thanks for listening to. I'm clearly very passionate
about this. I'm kind of holding back, but it's very interesting to hear what you guys have to say.
And I hope we see some improvements. I totally like having passionate guests on. It makes for
a more interesting show. Yeah, absolutely. And thanks for coming on. I hope this didn't feel too
adversarial. I'm not sure what sort of briefing Enoch gave you as to what the stance would be
over here. But I think it's one of those weird things where you can be pro the people in the
system and anti the system. It sounds super cliche, but whatever. I'm one of those people
that feel like teachers should be paid four times, five times more. The idea that the people whose
job it is to hone and sculpt young minds to bring forward the next generation of workers
and voters and thinkers are being paid a bit better than food with surface wages and often
have to buy their own supplies to give their students the best experience. That's something
insane. So I think I guess that's one to make it clear that we at least I don't want to speak
very much, but we support the endeavor. I think it's just the implementation doesn't really at
least I sort of feel doesn't really match up with the expressed motivation. But it's awesome to hear
