that that's a negative thing, at least for people who want jobs and don't have the luxury of like
finding their dream job, right? Because then, you know, if your work feels like work and you have to,
you know, clock in and do stuff like everybody else, having a 15 year or so period or however
long kids are in school, 12, I guess K through 12, and then some college or whatever, having practice
going by a schedule, you know, like I've had lots of jobs and almost all of them make me come in at
a certain time, I could take a break for a certain amount of time at lunch or, you know, between or
in the middle of the day or something. If the workplace is the first time you're exposed to
sort of an environment, people would freak out. And in fact, do I think that Hansen talks about
some of those cases, and I bet they're in Kaplan's book, which I haven't read. But like I said, I think
that there's one, you can put a nasty spin on that and say, see, it's just about, you know,
corralling people and breaking them. But I don't think that that's, that's not what I'm trying to
say. I think it's just an important facet of the system, but one that people don't really talk about.
I just want to backpedal for a second. I think in the introduction, you know, I should use the
phrase, guessing the teacher's password. I was wondering if you wanted to explain what that was
and if we could get audience feedback on that. Oh, sure. It's a, well, it kind of is what it
sounds like where the students don't necessarily know the reason behind what's happening. They just
know what the student wants to hear. I think Feynman gave an example of this when he was,
oh God, it was such a complicated example now that I can't recall exactly what it was. It was
something about the light coming in from outside and bouncing off a lake. And he was asking the
students in his class if they could use this as a way of determining the polarization of the light.
And they all looked at him blankly and he said something about the, you know, light moving
through an index of refraction. And they like immediately jumped up and like recited word
for word exactly what, what, you know, all the physics terms applicable. And then he was like,
well, water is an index of refraction, you can use this knowledge to figure out which way the
light is polarized. And I'm, I'm murdering this example because I don't remember the details.
But they, they never put those two together. And this was new information to them. So a lot of
school seems to be like figuring out what your teacher wants to hear and then giving that to the
teacher. And that is since it's not that valuable of a skill when you are not interacting with the
teacher, it tends to fade. And I actually, I, I was a bit of a teacher's pet as a kid. So I loved
guessing the teacher's password. I would write like the most exquisite essays and get awesome
grades on them. But I, when I am not dealing with a teacher as I haven't in two decades now,
I don't use that skill. I don't, you know, you don't really use essay writing in the business
world at all. You want to get your point across quickly and with as little fuss as possible.
I don't know. There's, I mean, I'm not saying it's a useless skill, but I think
a lot of people say they want education. And I think there's better ways to get it than the
school system we have right now. Have you, are you familiar with the unschooling movement at all?
Not really. I'm sure if you define it, I will recognize people in my community who are moving
towards that. Oh, yeah. You live in a cool little hippie commune up there. Yeah.
Odd reason Crestone, which is like one of the most hippie places here in Colorado. It's kind of
neat. Unschooling is when you pull your kids out of school and basically just let them do whatever.
Like you don't even do homeschooling really. I mean, you say you do homeschooling,
but the kids run around and play and educate themselves. I'm sorry. Go ahead.
We call those feral kids. Okay. We have them. We have them here.
Do you find that they tend to learn the things that they're interested in?
No, absolutely not. When those kids come into the to the charter school, they have very few
skills that they can use in order to learn. They've learned that they can get away with
things that they want. They've learned that they don't have to hold to any sort of schedule.
They learned that they don't have to really respect. It's actually really difficult with
those children sometimes. And that's not in the, well, we're the authority and you have to sit
down. We all are here to learn. And because we're all here to learn, you kind of had to sit down
and shut up for a little bit so I can help you begin to learn with everyone else. So those kids
really do struggle when they come into school. I've had two where kids went and quote unquote
homeschooled for a year or two and they're always behind academically, always. Now the
those who are inclined to learn and want to learn and were stifled learning,
they catch up really quickly. I have a couple of students in my classroom who came in pretty
far behind. They're motivated and so they caught up because they wanted to and they're even ahead
in some areas and it's awesome to see. But they were definitely handicapped when they first
gone to the school. Now that's also they all homeschooling is inferior and bad.
But the homeschooling that these kids had was. And then kind of to backtrack to Stephen's point
a little bit about the learning how to keep a schedule and whatnot. In my school, it's actually
kind of difficult for a lot of the kids, especially because in previous years, we were a very, very
loosey goosey school, whatever goes your heart tells you that you have to, you know, you just
can't do it today. So you're going to sit in the corner and blah. And so my co-teacher and I had to
work really hard to instill a schedule because most jobs, most things have a schedule. If you
say, even if you're a stay at home mom, your kid has a schedule, you have to keep up with the
feedings, get the grocery, get the cleaning, all that stuff. It's there's things that we had to
keep up with in our world. And there's another plan is going to make and it's slipping off here.
You mentioned, you mentioned the kids that love to learn that even if they were raised
feral when they come in, they catch up pretty quickly. Like in my opinion, the ideal kind of
school would be one where teachers are available and they teach, but attendance isn't mandatory.
Like what do you do with the kids who are forced to be there and don't want to be there? Because in
my experience, that was what made school really crappy was those students. Yeah. And it depends
on the severity of that students dislike. And here's what I say about kids who don't like school.
Oftentimes they don't like school because of the back strength of the teacher or they are,
oftentimes they're not challenged enough. And that is a failing both in administration and
on certain educators, because I will not, they're their teachers out there who come in, they get
the paycheck, they don't want to, they don't want to interact with the kids. They don't want to be
part of that. And that's a problem. I think a big part of fixing education is getting good educators
in that that's a big help. That being said, even with inspired, really engaged educators,
there's going to be kids who do not want to be there. So in my classroom, I have some kids who
are not quite the most motivated, they don't really want to work, but they're there. They do
put effort in. A big part of their schooling or their education is the social aspect, is the
aspects of, oh, pops into my head on the subject. And a couple of big things that are coming into
the education world now, things like grit and failing forward, which are life skills. Grit is,
I have to go in and I have to do this job, even if I don't like it, I have to get a paycheck, blah,
that's the kind of survival, do what you have to do and keep moving on, even if you feel defeated.
And then the failing forward is a similar concept. So those kids who may be not so academically prone
or so interested in the academics, they're still learning some of these other skills. My school
calls them core values. They're still learning the core values. So even though they may not be
very good at discussing the crucible, they can at least learn other things that they can then
take into further education, whatever path education lies. Now, there are children who
unfortunately need a lot of outside help before school is the right place for them. I have a
student in my classroom who has certain behavior disorders. And even with teachers who really
weren't there, we give them our all. The student is unwilling to learn, uncompromising. They blow
up the classroom. In fact, the student is no longer in my classroom. He sits out with his computer
and does computer work because otherwise he completely disturbs everything in the room.
And that sucks. It's something that I didn't think I would encounter this early in my teaching
career. This is the sort of thing where we have to help the student as a whole child before we
can ever get him into academics. And there's students like that across the country, students with
home lives that are completely distracted and they can't focus on things. Students who are on the
streets, students with a myriad of situations that we can't control for in the schools. And so no,
they're not going to be into education. And that's valid. And that's some societal things that have
to be fixed along with the education. But with the majority of kids who, even if they're not
quite into the whole school thing, they'll be engaged in certain parts of the day, they'll be
engaged with certain lessons or in things. It always kind of brings this smile when I have kind
of the students who aren't really into ELA, but they get into a conversation all of a sudden or
they really get into some simulation or other. And most good teachers are going to expand their
repertoire. They can expand the types of lessons that they're teaching and the content and the
skills that we're building to try to hit all the kids at least a little bit. The kids who want to
be there and into everything, you're going to hit them all the time. The kids who aren't, you're
maybe only going to reach them sometimes, but at least you're going to give them something to kind
of cling on to, to want to continue in education. I don't know if you can answer this in a public
way, since we are going to be recorded and put out on the internet and you are a teacher.
So if you can't, that's all right and we'll move on. But I'm wondering, I guess from both of you,
what do we do about the fact that some people just shouldn't be in school? Because I'm okay
with them not going to school, but that also means they get left behind by society. And
you can't really, I guess you could get a job even without a high school degree if our society
was structured a little bit better. I mean, a kid should be able to go and get an apprenticeship
with a carpenter or a plumber or an electrician at 14, because at 14, you're old enough to learn
those things and go into the working world, but we don't let them and I think that's pretty fucked up.
How many 14-year-olds have you interacted with lately, Nyash?
Lately? Not many, but I remember I was working with my dad when I was 14.
I think you're painting a rosy picture of 14-year-olds.
Again, remember the brain thing I was talking about? Yeah.
If 14-year-olds are capable of learning that stuff, but they are not capable of the
responsibility of holding that position. Now, apprenticeships, I agree with. In fact,
my school has mentorships where students learn various skills from various mentors around
the community. Some of them are more valuable than others, but I teach 14-year-olds. That's
the talent of eighth grade is 14-year-olds. They're not ready to enter the working world.
Now, can, well, go on. And are they ready to take some jobs? You know, working with family,
because I do have kids who work in their parents' restaurants, who work manual jobs. In fact, last
summer, I hired one of my 14-year-olds to watch the house, like the kind of kid jobs that a lot
of us are familiar with. They do that and they're building that stuff up. A full-on apprenticeship
or the working world, I don't think so. I think that their education would have to extend a little
bit longer in a very structured, very scaffolded environment. We have to give them ways to fail
without heavy consequences. That's a big benefit of school, is that for most kids,
they can fail, they can funk a little bit, and there's not going to be serious real-world consequences.
If we kick them out of the working world, then all of a sudden they're part of their parents
paying for the bills. They're part of all these responsibilities that should not be put on them.
They are not developed enough yet. They may look old enough. They may sometimes even
emotionally act old enough, but they are not. I agree with you on that matter, but I don't
think people are really fully grown up until they're in their early to mid-30s anyway,
and people before the industrial age started taking on adult responsibilities and supporting
themselves and their families at ages like 14. I think it's illegal for a reason because it's
just not right. Kids should have a childhood. Why would we put them in the working world at 14
if they're going to be working until they're 60 anyway? Let them have another five or six years
of freedom before we make them be a part of that drudgery. They're going to be 40 years.
See, I don't consider being forced to go to school as a gift that we're giving to anyone.
I would imagine a lot of kids around that age would much rather tool around with a car or something
than be forced to come in and be basically in a prison environment where they are forced to sit
and just endure hours that they don't want to be there. They're not getting anything out of them.
They can't socialize with anyone. I mean, it's no wonder they're miserable in school,
and they make other people miserable too. I would also be miserable.
I think just taking a step back is like there's a difference between
like a 14-year-old bagging my groceries and one repairing the engine of my car. I'll trust
a 14-year-old or whatever, a 15 or however old they want to be to help me out at a grocery store,
but not to fix my car. He's not going to be fixing your car by himself. It's under a apprenticeship
program where he's there with another guy and not making very much. He's still basically living
at home with his parents. He's being paid in the skills that he's learning as he's working.
Sure. Then I think there's an alternative there that a lot of people take, which is
people don't finish school or they finish high school. I mean, getting a high school degree
doesn't really open any doors for anybody anymore anyway, but you can do like trade
schools after. I got a useless degree in psychology and never did anything with it,
then went and got into a coding boot camp and now do that for a living.
Many of our generations offer automotive courses and stuff to get a trade degree kind of thing
or that sort of thing. I guess I was just wanting to just not get too bogged down in
a specific example and just point out that there are other avenues to go down that sort
of alleviate some of these concerns maybe. I think that's mainly what I'm coming down on,
is that I think education is a great thing, but I think schooling is not necessarily the same
thing as education and schooling is not necessarily right for everyone. I think our society is kind
of fucked up in the way that it forces everyone to go to school. Like you said too, you asked,
what do we do with kids who shouldn't be in school? How you define that is going to be tough,
but maybe somebody who just couldn't go to school. I was almost in that camp. I was in
trouble a lot, especially in elementary and junior high. I got bored and I would just go for Allen
drive and do whatever it was and I would make a mess and make a ruckus and stuff. I don't know
how many lines I'd have to cross where someone kicked me out of school, but that wouldn't suck.
Leaving aside the problem of how you define that line, there's also the problem that it's not like
a line where the kids on this side aren't good for school, the kids on this side are,
because let me rephrase that. Maybe the kids who are good for school are in a box and there's all
different kinds of places to be outside that box. If you're not good for one kind of school,
you might be good for another kind, but you can't set up institutions for every kind of
non-typical learner or something. Right. Well, yeah, there's many ways to get an education.
A lot of our generation's greatest programmers dropped out of high school.
One of the things I'm worried about is that in the modern society, the way it's set up,
if you don't have a certain amount of both education and on top of that, just raw intellect,
if you don't meet a certain minimum level, you're basically unemployable and it's creeping up every
year. In a hundred years from now, even unless you're in the top 10% intellectually, it may be
that 90% of the human population simply cannot be economically employed in any useful field.
And what do we do then? Now I feel like we're getting to our field. That doesn't really relate to
the education system. Okay, that's true. Sorry. That's just like we're all flocks in 50 years.
And that's probably true no matter what. That's not relating to whether or not it makes sense to
make high school kids read Shakespeare or something, right? Right. Or whatever other thing.
So Girona, I'm enjoying where you're going when I feel like we're getting to our field and I don't
want to leave the vaudry. What do you think? Is this something you want to talk about?
I mean, we can look at many different models of the future and where we could go,
but if we look at the trend, education, more and more people are getting an education.
Now that's not to say that there are people left behind. When I was in college, I read a book about
a woman and her child, her whole family, and they're a white family living near the Appalachians.
They're illiterate. And the book was about the author trying to teach mother and son how to read.
It's absolutely heartbreaking because the mother, they're trying to learn how to read because she
