So heuristics are more about your brain not having enough computational power or something, right?
So heuristic is the shortcut, and the bias is the crack in the lens.
I like that he was more making the point that this isn't about IQ and intelligence.
This isn't about individual processing power that you have. It's about a problem in the machinery
that is universal to all humans, thus making it sort of like an art that everyone can use to get
better at thinking in general, as opposed to something that is there to train like your IQ
or something, you know? It uses a lot of highfalutin language and stuff, but I think that,
right, it's trying to assuage the concern that, oh, I'm not smart enough for this,
or oh, this is only for those esoteric IQ 160 people. Often high IQ people, or like,
I think they're, you know, James Randi-Fulling scientists and doctors, for example,
show that the smarter you are, often like the easier you are to fool.
Yeah, you can definitely become what he cautions against later as a sophisticated arguer.
I can't be wrong for all of these really good reasons. If you're not familiar with Randi's
screwing with scientists, last I heard there was, he was writing a book on that was going to cover
like all of it comprehensively, maybe a new thing that he was doing. I know that he put
a couple of students in labs back with like in the 80s when they were doing like serious
magic research in government-funded labs across the country. I think that was the 70s.
70s, yeah. Well, Uri Geller was popular in the 80s, wasn't he? And maybe it was the 70s too.
It might have just been like a period of 20 years. Yeah, whatever it was. There were charlatans
who would go out there and they could do four shitty tricks and they'd be sitting, they'd,
you know, get paid to go to a lab and do it under scientific scrutiny. Yeah, they claimed it was
ESP or telepathy or like remote viewing. Right. So it's not like magic. It was like tricks. They
didn't think it was magic tricks. It was, but it was that like the government was trying to see
whether or not you could read someone's mind. No, totally. But like Uri could do like a spoon
bending thing that they would. Tribulate telekinesis. They would want to see. Yeah. So
Randy had a couple of students go in. They were going to go do magic just like Uri Geller was
doing. And if at any point they were asked, are you faking this? They were just saying, yes,
James, Randy sent me. And they were never asked over the many months that they were there doing
these studies. Okay. So even like the basic question of like, you fucking with me? Never came up.
Because I guess maybe they didn't encourage them that they're able to be fooled. Yeah,
they were very smart, but they were naive. Like they never thought that someone would
intentionally try to mislead them for, you know, financial gain or for notoriety. Right.
Which is a stupid oversight. And I'd like to think our scientists are smarter now.
It's not even a smartness thing. It's more of a like trust thing. Like a lot of people in
the rationality community tend to be very high openness. I would hope our scientists are more
jaded now. I think they are. I think the skeptic community has helped with that.
Kind of. Yeah, definitely. There was that recent bunch of papers that like hoax papers
that. Yeah, I got some popular retweets. That's a different kind of phenomena though. That wasn't
someone going in and tricking somebody to their face. That was more just like no one actually
checking to see if this story checked out. Right. So I'm thinking of the like the symbolic penis
or what was that one that was a couple years ago? I think it was the same group of people,
but they did another round of papers. Yeah, recently. The only one I can't remember what
this was, but it was some they wanted to make a case that look at these these journals that
they'll pose they'll publish anything that looks like it's, you know, pro-social justice warrior
stuff and the medical the metaphysical penis and they had some if you haven't if you're not
familiar with this little scandal. Well, the thing is, is that people would retweet about oh,
yeah, they were all fooled. But it turned out that this was published in like a pay to publish
journal. It was turned down from a ton of real journals. Okay. And that didn't come out in the
initial wave of this release. And so this was sort of like a second level deception,
and it was more on the people consuming it rather than the people doing the tests.
There was a more recent one. I don't remember the details.
That's the one I'm thinking of it. So gold squared. That one also had its issues, though it was like
claiming that it did a certain thing. Ozzie had a really good reputation on their blog about
why they think that most of it was bullshit, although I think they agreed that the last one
was a crappy paper and shouldn't have been published. Can link to that too. I think that
was a really good article. Please do because I think I heard about this in passing, but I'm
right about it. So that'll be fun. We're off topic. Okay. I did also notice in this in this post
that there was a call forward both to politics is the mind killer and universal fire. That's just
fucking awesome. I think we talked about politics is the mind killer before, which is exactly what
it sounds like. People go funny in the head when talking politics. So save those conversations for
higher level. I was going to say like, you know, rationalist on rationalist discussions. You're
going to have one of these arguments or use like distant hyperbole examples or just like historical
examples or something like that. Blues in the greens. Yeah. Or 17th century France is a lot
easier to talk about in a political heated situation than today. So what was universal fire?
Was that everything? That was the one with flagistan. Okay. So we'll have to save the mystery
flagistan or flow just and I'm not sure how you say it for another day. Oh, right. Yeah. I'm not
sure either. I think I've heard of both ways. It's one of those things I think there's probably
a word for it that will probably mispronounce if we only have read it where you say something
different if you've only read it before and then someone says it in real life and you're like,
Oh, that's how you say that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Epitome, for example. I thought it was pronounced
epitome up until a few years ago. I know someone who thought demonstrably was pronounced demon
demonstrably. I like that. Yeah. It's like, why, why are demons involved in this?
This word? I pulled out this quote because I really love it. If you're a scientist just
beginning to investigate fire, it might be a lot wiser to point to a campfire and say,
fire is that RNG bright hot stove over there. Rather than saying I define fire as an alchemical
transmutation of substances, which releases flagistan. Yeah. I also had a good interview for
a tech question to ask like, what's a computer? Yeah. And you know, you could say, well, it's
like a turn complete system or you could just pull out your phone like this thing. Yeah. This is a
computer efficiency of kind of explaining pointing up or pointing down. At that point though, you're
also guessing at what your interviewer wants to hear. Are they someone who wants, you know,
a quick dirty practical answer? Are they someone who wants to know the theory behind
computation? That's why you research the company that you're interviewing at.
Right. Yeah. You look at the Glassdoor reviews. But if I was asking that question to an interviewee,
I would want to see how they'd react to an odd side ball question. Okay. And you know,
I'd probably learn something because they're probably smarter than I am. They have some great
answers. But if they had, do that thing where they're like, that's not a real question. And then
then come back from that. That's the reason I ask a question like that. The fact that it's about
computers is only because it would be a computer company, right? So. Yeah. All right. We've been
going for a while. We should move on. Okay. I also want to say that we probably will probably,
we definitely will not be spending this much time on things going forward. This was just like
our big, Hey, we're doing this. We're having a squee little kickoff talking in depth. But
in the future, they're going to be much quicker because we can't, we, this would turn into just
the less wrong sequences podcast. Yeah, we'll do, we'll do bullet points for the future ones,
maybe big highlights, fun tie-ins, that sort of thing. But certainly. And notes. Preparations.
Yes. And probably, probably just two per episode. Yeah, that sounds good. Probably a better length.
Cool. So before we get to listener feedback, I have an announcement as well. Tell us. Okay.
My announcement is that, um, it's probably been mentioned before on this podcast a few times
that I was writing a novel for a while. And actually, it's been over a year and a half,
I guess, since I finished the first draft. And there's been a lot more work done on it
since that point. But I have finally decided that I am going to do the, the thing that seems to be
all the rage and rational circles now where we publish our fiction serially online. So starting
November 11th, I will be publishing the first chapter of my novel, What Lies Dreaming, at
whatliesdreaming.com. And then I'll be putting them out one chapter every week for 44 weeks until
it's done. So are you going to be releasing chapters that you've already written? Or are you
going to have to do like significant editing to them before you post them? The whole thing is done.
In theory, I could just post the whole thing up right now. I'm probably going to give it one last
look and change some last details at the last moment, because that's how writers are. You're
always tweaking right up until the last second. But yeah, the whole thing is done. And in theory,
I don't have to change anything at all. And you can cut this if you want. But I think it would be
valuable to plug the Patreon component to this. Oh, okay. At the beginning, because then people
can know about it. Maybe even set the Patreon up in advance if you're already plugging it here,
right? Yeah. So you can set the Patreon up beforehand. So I've actually already set the
Patreon up. There we go. Yeah, the Patreon is patreon.com slash eniashbrotsky. Or you can go
to whatliesdreaming.com. And it will also have a link over the Patreon, of course. But yeah,
depending on the level of Patreon support, you can get next week's chapter a week early. You can
get author's notes, you can get deleted content, because there's a lot of stuff that I went and
cut through in my various revisions. I'm gonna have to pay for that one. That's
nice. I was gonna do I was gonna pay anyway, but I got to see the stuff that hit. I think I like
the stuff I don't buy DVDs anymore, because it's not the early 2000s. But I do go to YouTube when
movies come out and look at the deleted the deleted scenes or movies that I like. I love the process.
I love being able to see what the person's like thought process was when they're creating something.
Yeah, that'll be both from the notes and in the cut stuff. But just just so you guys know,
it was cut for a reason. Some of it was actually bad. Yeah, but that's good.
Again, it's fun. Yeah, obviously, if it was great and you wanted it, people who it left it in,
but it's fun to see why what was left out and then why on that sort of thing. Yeah,
what the branching path is in the timeline, the way it could have gone. Or also I'm a writer too,
so I like to see like, what should I cut from my work? All right, well, then hopefully you guys
will enjoy that. And then just like watching deleted scenes for movies, you're gonna wonder,
why didn't they put that one in? I think sometimes the answer might be because
it's too long that way and that could go. I doubt that's much of a constraint with a
with a book that no one told you to cut that yet, right? It absolutely was a constraint.
Really? I cut a lot of things. Well, in my opinion, it sort of starts slow and builds and it gets to
a really great place. But as I was reading through it the second and third time, I was like,
I got to cut more from the front. The front is just a little too long before things get going.
And so I cut in quite a bit from the front, actually. And I still think it takes a little
longer than I would like it to get to the really juicy stuff. But I guess it's less
of a constraint once you're publishing weekly, because I was originally thinking of publishing
in a novel, right? If you're publishing weekly, it doesn't matter as much. People are just going
to read one chapter a week. But yeah, you can make it as long as you want. Yeah.
Wild Boe. Exactly. But I still didn't want to make it too long. I do also have a thing at certain
levels. Once the ebook comes out, because I am going to just put it out as an ebook for anyone
to buy in one novel shot if they want. At certain level, you get the ebook for free. At
certain other level, you get a physical book for free shipped to you. At a higher level,
you can get up to two books both signed and personalized if you'd like. Oh, and there is
one thing. The book I divided it up, it takes place over the course of eight days. So I divided
it up into sections for each day. At one of the higher tier levels, when we start a new day,
you get all the chapters for that day immediately, as opposed to having to wait one per week. So
cool. I'm really curious to read this because I didn't yet, even though you sent me a copy
before you went to Burning Man. Just so everyone knows, there's always a worry if you take a long
travel out into the desert that you're going to get in a car accident or something. It's like,
Steven, in case I die, I want you to put this out on the internet because I spent so much time on it.
Someone should see it if I die. Yeah, the first time you went to Burning Man, I think you didn't
know what to expect and all you need to be in the desert for a week. It was the middle of the
night before you left. I woke up the day that you'd left and there's an email that said,
if I die, please make sure this gets out. Yes. That's great. It's like, here's what to do with
my money. Here's my last will. It's like, here, just publish this book. Yeah. Did you make any
arrangements for your assets or anything? Or was it just your book? No, no, fuck my assets. I don't
care. The book is the thing that I really poured my life into. That's awesome. So as quickly as a
brief recap, the little summary that I have here, famine racks, second century Rome, food riots
rage in the streets and the emperor struggles to hold onto power in the midst of a burgeoning coup.
He recalls the German legion to Rome to restore order. Unbeknownst to him, a hidden evil slips
into the city along with the returning legion. A civil war boils over and black magics run unchecked
and ancient horror stirs from its dreams, finely roused after eons of slumber. Sounds dope. Spooky.
Yeah. I'm excited. Why is it going on November 11th? I don't know. I just, I needed to set a date
to start and I was like, okay, this gives me about a month and a half to get ready. So cool. Yeah.
Well, I'm excited. Yeah. Me too. And everyone else should be. I'm, I, I look forward to it.
If it has the similar vibe to the rest of writing, I can tell I'm going to enjoy it already. So thank
you. Yeah. That nice grimdark aesthetic. Yeah, definitely. Oh, oh, oh, oh, and I decided this
just a few days ago. Everyone who is a Patreon supporter of the basin conspiracy is going to get
the first three chapters a week early just so they can get a free sample taste. Awesome. Nice
to have rewards for this show too. So. All right. That, that is what I got. I'm excited about this.
I hope you guys end up liking it. I'm excited too. It should be fun. How long, or I know that
when we had Max on, he asked us not to say how long Crystal Society was because when I was talking
with him about it before, I think right when he published it, but before we did the episode,
he was like, yeah, it's about as long as the fourth Harry Potter book. And I was like, wait,
it's like 734 pages. Okay. And he was like, I don't know if it's exactly that, but it was a
similar word count because for some stupid reason, I had not only remember the fourth and fifth book
links, but I used to have all them in my head somewhere for some stupid reason. Okay. And yet
I can't off the top of my head tell you my dad's birthday. So like my priorities are totally in
order. Yeah. But how long is your book? 120,000 words. How long is that compared to other books?
Because I don't know. I think that's average. Yeah, most books are, well, most books used to be
around 100,000. They've been creeping longer lately. So about 120,000 is getting close to about
average now. Yeah, it's a little bit on the longer side of average. But yeah, basically average.
I love that people have the, you know, taste for larger novels again.
Is that like two to 300 pages? Or is that four to five? I have no idea. Because I know page size
depends on page size and text size and all that. Well, generally in a published novel, it's 250
words per page. So someone in the 400 pages range. Okay, cool. Because I read all of the Willow
Time series most of it twice. And that was like 11,000 words. Wait, no, 11,000. Hold on. There
was 11,000 something 11,000 pages. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah, that sounds closer to right. Because there
were like 800, 900 pages each in the 15 books. So I think I can handle this. Yes, definitely. And I
did read worm. So then you can handle it. Yeah, awesome. Great. That's awesome. I'm excited.
Cool. All right, should we go on to listener feedback? Okay. I had a real quick one. Well,
we'll see how long I'll whatever you guys tell me how long this should take. Someone commented on
episode 36, a link to permanent mental effects from LSD. Oh, yeah. And I read that. And I was
thinking, Oh, that's interesting. And then luckily, it opens up with saying, these are the permanent
changes I've noticed after doing a fuck ton of LSD and the link to saying that that was about
250 micrograms once a week for a year about average. So luckily, that's a lot more than anyone I know
for the most part. So when I was thinking when I was reading through this, I didn't have to be
super worried that I was going to be hit by these because I had taken well under a fuck ton. So
but I wanted to go through the what? Well, I guess there's 11, but I'll go through really fast
