plane fly or plummet out of the sky. Yeah, that actually ties back into a sentence from the first
essay that I forgot to capture, which was, it wasn't by having the biggest muscles that human
draws to prominence on earth, which is a sentiment that Harry flex and methods of rationality.
And he suspects that much of that point is lost on wizards because they can just wave their little
wands and make magic happen. He's like, no, look, our real superpower is brains. Even if you guys
just want to stop working, we still got those. Having accurate beliefs around the world as a
requisite to accomplish goals is, I think, really underappreciated. And I don't think I run into
a lot of people who full out say, nope, having an accurate map is, or they wouldn't use these words,
but expressing the sentiment that having an accurate map is pointless, because they can't
believe that that's true, right? Even in the sense of literally having an accurate map to get to work,
right? Like if they're going, if they probably take a similar route to work every day, or at
least they know that work is over there and they live here, so they need to go in that wayish
direction. They're not going to just try taking all right turns to see if they get there one day,
because they know that that's not how things work, right? So I know I'm belaboring this point,
but I once argued to somebody who didn't, who when I was in my teenage phase of arguing people
out of their religion for fun, had fallen back on fine, but I don't care about logic. And I was
like, yes, you do, and I'm going to prove it. Yeah. The whole like, well, what is truth? Well,
if you walk off a cliff, then it's true that you're going to plummet to your death, and that's
why you're not going to do it. And you're going to plummet at roughly 9.8 meters per second per
second without without one of the baller squirrel suits that people on the internet jump off of
cliffs with. Those look fun. Those like flying squirrel suits. Oh, those things. Yeah, those
are cool. But you know, the downside to pursuing truth to accomplish a specific goal is that once
that goal is accomplished, you don't need to pursue the truth anymore. You're like, well,
I got my plane. Now I'm going to go back to, you know, burning the fat of the lamb to my god.
I used to worry about that. But I think that the more you learn about the universe, the more
complex it becomes like this hydra where you cut the heads off. I think that we're not going to run
out of problems anytime soon. So I don't worry about that anymore. But if all you care about is
what if your specific goal is to make other people believe in your God, then there are
ways of doing that that you can research into that, but you aren't actually finding out the
truth of the world. Yeah, so this is the dark side of epistemic rationality, right? Well,
this is the dark side of applied rationality where you're trying to solve goals. Epistemic
rationality. That's the second time today I flipped those. I'm an instrumental rationality.
Is that called dark arts? I think dark arts are something more specific. Yeah. But I was just
saying that you can use the tools in a way that's actually harmful. And I can't think of a good
martial arts metaphor for that. I think just martial arts in general, like you could just hurt
somebody. Yeah, you could hurt somebody without meaning to or you could hurt yourself. But then
it's really clear that you're doing it wrong if you come out of a sparring match and, you know,
with broken bones or something, right? Well, I mean, like if you're a trained Taekwondo artist
and you just go into a bar fight in order to hurt people. Yeah. If you're part of a Cobra Kai,
shouldn't be doing that. But I think the downside is that you could learn martial arts with the
expressed goal of beating up all your high school bullies and, you know, with all the vengeance
in your heart and still get good at martial arts, right? There's no actual blocker there,
but that doesn't quite work for this because this is more encompassing, right? Maybe you can get
good enough martial arts to kick ass, but you can't become a true martial artist or something. Is
that a way to get around it? You can learn just enough martial arts that you can get in a bar brawl
and satisfy your drive for violence, but then you're not, you know, attaining enlightenment or
getting the like positive benefits of martial arts. And you're definitely like
causing externalities on the rest of the world. I think at this point, we're talking the differences
between, you know, learning something and what we do with the thing that we are learning.
Yeah. You know, you can always use technology for good or evil. Yeah, just like any tool.
Yeah. I think the con of the reason to learn through this to find a specific goal is because,
you know, similar to curiosity, once that goal is achieved, you don't necessarily have to keep
searching for truth. That's why the first virtue is curiosity. Yeah. And the third reason that he
gives, and this one is my personal favorite is morality because this is like the reason I
seek truth and I guess was taught to seek truth since, since I was a child is that it is a moral
imperative like the Jehovah's Witnesses literally call their religion the truth with a capital T.
Um, but morality is you seek, you believe that to seek the truth is noble and important and
worthwhile includes the belief that truth seeking is pragmatically important to society and therefore
is incumbent as a duty upon all. This, in my opinion, has the most pros for it because
you continue to seek truth as an end to itself, regardless of, you know, whether you're curious
or I mean, curiosity is definitely a better motivator because then it's intrinsic. But
you continue to seek truth. Even if you aren't all that curious about something, you continue to
care about things being true. Even if you aren't specifically looking for truth, you think it's
important even if you don't have any specific goal that you're trying to accomplish with that truth.
So I really like it. And this is the one that I push when people ask, you know, like, well,
how are you going to get people to stop believing in religion? I'm like, just give someone a love of
truth so deep that they really, really want to know the truth. And they're eventually going to
find out on their own that this religion thing is bullshit, because they're going to run across
the scientific method and asking questions like why do you believe what you believe and they're
going to get to the answer by themselves. But the con side, speaking to this, is that it's too
easy to acquire, as learned moral duties, modes of thinking that are dreadful missteps in the dance.
To make rationality into a moral duty is to give it all the degrees of freedom of an arbitrary
tribal custom. People arrive at the wrong answers and then indignantly protest that they acted with
propriety rather than learning from their mistakes. They feel like they are accomplishing their moral
duty by going through the steps of rationality. And if you then say, I think you came to a
wrong conclusion, and this is why they can be all indignant that like, no, I did my moral duty,
how dare you try to say that I'm a bad person? Yeah, not an accident. And it's, there's a lot
to read into the use of the word virtue of curiosity, or rather the first virtue of rationality is
curiosity, because like living a virtuous life in the like Greek sense wasn't just about like
doing the right and wrong thing. It kind of stemmed from being a virtuous person. But a virtuous
person would do the right and wrong thing, whether or not anyone was watching or whether or not they
knew they could get away with it, because it's just how it was, it made you a good person too.
And so part of part of you being a good person was that you just happened, you know, you did good
things else to the outside too. Maybe, you know, you could even read maybe more into the word
morality here, because this seems like I said more of the Greek sense of like morality rather
than what we mean just by making right and wrong choices, or rather morally right and wrong choices.
I don't think any of these three work as a standalone justification on their own,
put together their good legs for this whole case for truth to stand on, right? I suppose one,
maybe satisfied curiosity is the fun aspect, that like there's this really good rush from
actually figuring something out, you know, like finding your car keys after an hour of looking
times whatever factor, when you solve a problem and you really get it, and it's, and you know it's
true because you can prove it, that feels really good. And so I mean, there's a fun aspect to it
too. No one's going to say in the moment that they know exactly what it's like to be a deluded
person or to be a person who deludes themselves with fake truths, you know, to get by or something,
right? You know, you talk to like a religious fundamentalist, they're not going to say, oh,
yeah, it's great. It's a little double thing. Right. But I think if you are in the middle of
that sort of thing, I don't know what I don't know if I've had a big enough transformation to come back
from like the feeling of that rightness that you're doing it the right way. If that's tainted,
at the time where it's only tainted in hindsight, when you look back and realize like, oh, no,
I was totally deluding myself to, you know, try and persuade others.
Well, this is where he brought up the Spock example specifically was in the morality section,
where people think that because they were, you know, all calm and rational and gave, you know,
four significant digits in their estimate, that therefore they are doing rationality right and
they get indignant if you point out that that's not actual truth seeking, that's just performing it.
But when they come out afterwards, so maybe I could ask you from your, when you were a proselytizing
Jehovah's Witness, did I imagine at the time you felt like you're doing the right thing,
or was there always this like nagging, like kind of dirty feeling that you there was always a dirty
feeling? Okay. I believe that it was important and that sharing the truth was the most important
thing to do. But I don't know, it always felt dirty because I'm guessing you never really any
heart believed it then. No, I did for quite a while. Is it possible you felt like you weren't
examining the alternatives? No, I mean, when I talked about it with my friends, that was one thing.
That was then that was I was really helping them and saving their lives and all that.
But going up to someone like just out on the street and trying to tell them about Jesus,
it felt like being a pusher, you know, okay, I meant more, I guess, in the sense of like
having like, you know, this this web of beliefs that you later realized was all false.
In the lived moment of having those, if that felt dirty at the time or not, and I guess,
I have the beliefs, I to, you know, justify them in a circle and do all the mental gymnastics
you have to do that. Did the mental gymnastics make you sore? Or did they feel good? Well,
because you don't notice the mental gymnastics on the surface, right? It's not until you start
really diving deep into it, which I mean, I couldn't do until I was at least 12, 12 or 13,
is when I started noticing the flaws. When you're younger than that, you just like accept it,
you're like, Oh, this is this is the truth. And, and you have this deep desire to know what is true.
But your parents tell you people in authority tell you and it's not until you just you don't
see the mental gymnastics. It's once you see them that you're bothered by them. So I wonder,
I guess I'm kind of thinking because of like, you know, someone like Ken Ham who can get on stage
and say the earth is 10,000 years old. How does he love to be able to see into his head?
I wonder if I'd love it if I'd go insane, like, because I could imagine that he knows he's full
of shit, and that he's all up there just, you know, all the signal virtue that he wants. No,
no, he's he's he's a true believer. So but, but what does that feel like in the face of, of,
I guess, maybe there's this awesome, I know I'm really getting sidetracked now, but
because I'm examining a specific person, but well, I mean, it's just like any other conspiracy
theorist where they convince themselves that something's true, that there's like a child
pedophilia ring in the basement of the Pizza Hut, you know, the guy really believed that was the case.
Yeah, but like in the case, and I keep picking on religion, because it's the easiest biggest
target change maybe to social justice. Yeah, I guess, because I can speak to having a really
strong beliefs about social justice that eventually seeds of doubt crept in, and it got
strong enough to the point where I did actually have to look up things. Nice. Can I can I set that
up in the way that I was going to do with the religious one, which was, and if this isn't a
good set up, just ignore it. This is another controversial thing that we can hate on.
No, it'll be fun. There's, you have to do the kind of mental tricks like not knowing
the structure of a logical thought, you know, you can have a belief that justifies,
belief A, that's justified belief B, which is justified by belief C, which also justifies
belief A, you've got this circle, and the rest of us know that's not how you can't,
you can't support this web on a circle of nothing, right? I will say that even as a child,
I was really, really bothered by the fact that God hated gay people, because I, I was just,
I know this sounds like a hippie thing to say, but I was really down with love. I was like,
everyone should love each other. And what is wrong if like two guys love each other? You know,
I just could not get it, but your parents believe in this and you depend on them to give you food
and shelter. And all your friends depend on this, your entire social network is people who believe
this. And if you don't also believe it, then you might die, you know, from neglect and exposure.
So there was, and all that's behind the veil of your press secretary, you know, as a kid,
realizing all that stuff. Well, no, no, I actually did, it bothered me as a kid, but I,
no, no, that you might be homeless if you disagree with your parents. Oh, that no, I didn't think
of it explicitly, no. But I felt the inability to reconcile a loving God with a God who hates
gays. But you know, I just didn't think about that. I was like, some part of me was like,
this is very important not to think about. And I didn't for as much as possible.
That's rough. Yeah. And you know, it was as it became more mainstream and you saw more gay people,
it was more and more in my face like, Hey, God really hates these people. And it was harder to
bury that when you actually saw gay people and knew them. But what is your social justice thing?
I was pretty aligned with the social justice movement. And I felt like I had read so much about
it. That I like, it seems so obvious to me that yeah, you should like support marginalized people,
feminism is good, fighting racism is good, etc. You start to kind of just like absorb all of the
things that people believe in social justice. And I remember points where there were people in
the office that I was working in that would kind of, you know, I would argue with anybody about
any of this stuff when it came up. And we kind of had a pretty good natured debates about it.
But I started to as the social justice got more and more like radical leftist, have a hard time
defending some things. Like I think the best example is when it started being okay to write
hashtag kill all men and make jokes about like, you know, male tears, talking about how all men
are terrible. And I was on the other side trying to justify to my like a bunch of my co workers
who are men who are asking, Well, this seems terrible. What's the deal with that? And I would
have to kind of go like read and see what other people had written and go, Okay, well, it's because
they're not actually talking about all men. And I heard myself like saying these justifications
and like the back of my brain, I was like, I don't think I, I don't think I believe that. And this
actually makes me feel dirty to say these things. But it was really hard to push through why and to
sit there and actually look at the beliefs because I didn't want to, I guess it's tribalism, I guess
I didn't want to like, you know, you don't want to do my tribe. But um, that's all like in hindsight.
But you definitely have a feeling that you can articulate. Did you lose a bunch of friends when
you Oh, yeah. Yeah, I think I like, I like, I appreciate you sharing that because that feeling
like you said of not really knowing how to justify what you just said, because you all you know is
what you've been told you believe on some subjects. And then you have to go off and find it and then
rehearse that argument and feel hollow saying it. I think that that sounds like a very familiar
sensation. I'm trying to think of when that happens to me. And I'm sure I could think of
something but nothing's coming to mind. I never been wrong before. No, it's just that that's
sort of what I was thinking about when I was trying to think of the unvirtuous truth seeker,
right? I'm trying to bring it back to the essay. But I, I think, man, I had something more to say
there. Shoot, I hate this. It's Monday. Yeah, kind of tall. It was a good Monday, though. It's
productive at work for like the first time in a couple weeks, which was nice. Congratulations.
Hey, actually, I finished something that I was going to take like 25 hours to do because that's
how long I estimated that it would take. But rather than do it the hard way, I was like, you know
what? What's the easy way to do this? And I just emailed or I messaged somebody who I know works on
the code base that we were interacting with, like trying to figure this out on our side. And
rather than me have to figure this out over the next two, three days, he was like, oh, yeah,
we changed that endpoint, hit it like this instead. I'm like, cool. It took me 30 minutes.
Asking for advice is an amazing life hack. It is. And it's one of the things that I think is
been like, it's just not just advice, because this wasn't like me consulting a senior on how to
fix this problem. It was me going straight to the source of somebody who was working on the
changes that we were trying to like update our stuff to work with their stuff. And like, wait,
just tell me what you guys did here and that I could figure this out. When I talk about it,
it's in tomorrow morning. I'm not going to just say, I'm done. I cheated. I'm going to explain
the virtue of how I cheated and why I want to do that all the time. So if you get the opportunity
