and say just yes or no and then we can dive in. So number one, worst memory. I don't think so,
really. I think my memory is similar than it as it was. It's hard to say. I have a hard time saying
because I've always had a shitty memory similar. So I have no idea about I can't remember how bad
my memory used to be, but doesn't I don't feel like it's any worse. I haven't done LSD. So if you
want to do a like pre post op. Yeah, we could do like the what is it the optimized mind. I can't
remember the name of things. Maybe my memory is bad right now. So this wouldn't be a good time to test
that, but you could test before and after. Cool. Yeah, that sounds fun. Number two, gaps in thought.
This is more just kind of saying that they're thinking kind of feels spacey,
like their thoughts aren't really tied together. I don't feel that way. I can see
how that happens. But I think maybe what if I had to guess they're more just aware that their
thoughts are doing that all the time. I actually think that I am a little more spacey than I used
to be. Like I used to have a lot more anxiety in general in life. And this having a little bit
of space between my thoughts has made me feel like a little bit dumber, but also just a lot more
mindful and a lot more enjoying of life too. In general, I don't have this constant like
racing going on in my head, you know. Yeah, I think it sounds amazing. That sort of ties into
number three, feeling less like I'm the one thinking of my thoughts. Well, that's not exactly it.
Number five, permanent increased well being in a way that's hard to put my finger on.
I could sort of attest to that, but it's really hard for me to say because this happens with every
big shift in my personality. It always comes with something that could be a plausible explanation
and other big life changes. So I can't pin it down. So like my life's gotten a lot better,
I'm a much heavier person. I tried LSD the month before I got my first real grown up job and had
like income and a savings account and health insurance. So like my life's a lot better objectively.
And it happened right after this happened. So it's hard to see if the causal arrow is really
the temporal arrow is causal or not. But I have a similar problem. Like when I first started
working out, I also had just gotten surgery and I got a Lasik not too long after that.
And I started up the podcast and I just made so many life changes all at once. It was hard to say
what led to what, you know, I was having a fantastic relationship for the first time ever.
And so I would sometimes say, yeah, I, when I, when I did this one thing, it led to all these
other changes, but who knows what exactly had caused it, you know, and recently I've also had
major life changes had a major divorce, you know, I went through a year where instead of working
for the man, I was writing a novel and there's a lot of things that change in my life then too.
At about the first time I tried LSD, so hard to get to point it to any one thing. I do slightly
blame LSD for like, because I finished my novel before I took any, right? Because I was like,
I don't want to change who I am while I'm still working on this. Now I am that sort of angst
and self-hatred and having anxiety in life really drove my writing a lot. And I'm going to get back
into writing again soon, but it has been God like nine months since I've written anything.
And I'm like, God damn it. I took LSD and I stopped writing. Why am I so happy with life? This sucks.
Well, maybe you need to write about different subjects.
Well, and I think you're selling yourself short, you still maintain a blog, you do this and another
podcast and you do write, you're just not publishing stuff lately, right? Well, no, I haven't really
been writing fiction at all in the past nine months. Weren't you at the coffee shop yesterday
writing stuff? I've just started again. Okay, so like literally just in the past couple weeks.
Well, I mean, you did just finish a book too. So like before the stretch, I guess I'm,
and there was the whole getting a new job and, you know, renovating this place and
there was a lot of stuff. Oh, that takes so much time. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of, you know,
there were a lot of other time pressures on me. Yeah, we're operating a bus stop by candlelight
was probably a, you know, big time, time sucks. So even me just setting up my new apartment,
like I didn't have to renovate anything, but there was no furniture and it was just a nightmare
before I had any kind of like living room area. There's we just got a couch two days ago. There
was no couch. We were sitting on the floor. There's no desks. Oh, it's a nightmare if you don't have
your workspace set up. It's one of those things you take for granted until you don't have it. So
yeah, that could definitely like just throw you into disarray. Yeah, so you got plenty of excuses.
Yeah, but I'm just saying if anxiety is one of the things that pushes you along in life,
taking away that anxiety might be a bad thing. I wonder if it's on net a bad thing. I don't know,
because I'm, I've noticed a personality shift. And I remember thinking, I don't want, I think
I said the words, I don't want to roll the dice of the personalities. I'm mostly happy with who I
am. I'm happier now. And I again, I can't be sure which way it came from. But, you know, if it was
related, which it very well could be, this is not an uncommonly reported experience. That's why
we're seeing a lot of checks on the same list. It's, I don't know, if you're more laid back and happy,
at least as long as it's not the obvious cost of like, intelligence or something,
something else that you really value. Productivity. Productivity, yeah. And I don't know, maybe it
did affect the intelligence a little bit. It's hard to say. You don't seem any dumber.
Okay, well, let's go. And I guess I should say you don't seem any less smart.
But because I mean, so that's the thing is, you know, if somebody took a blow to the head and
suddenly they can't remember how to get home from work anymore, but they're way happy, like they've
lost something and everyone can see that, right? I don't know. Because last night when we were
talking with the guy, I brought up the whole thing about... Hey, wait, what is this? We were invited
out to dinner with someone who was in town who was a fan of the podcast and he was like,
Hey, I'm in town. Can I buy you dinner and just chat with you for a few hours? And we're like,
Sure, that'd be awesome. So we did that. He mentioned one of the things that he appreciates is,
he knows there's some error in all his beliefs. And I asked, aren't you a little bit worried that
maybe because of that, you can be swayed from beliefs that are important because people can
exploit the fact that you hold that there's some error in your beliefs. And actually, I think it's
a really good thing to always know there's some level of error in your beliefs. He was like,
Like what? So I brought up that some people kind of are racist and will use things like the crime
stats for the black population are much worse. And that proves that black people are less civilized.
And he was like, Well, no, but that's because the system penalizes being black more. And I was
like, Yeah, I totally agree. And I never pushed that because in part because, you know, I didn't
want to be like, giving the impression that I'm one of those alt right assholes. But after we were
driving away, I was like, I should have pushed him. So you don't believe that there's error in
your thinking about whether or not the system is the problem. But on the other hand, I don't want
to push him on that either because I also agree that the problem is with the laws and how they
are enforced in large part. So you bring that up because you're worried that if you were,
if I had been more mentally on top of things, I would have made that connection then because it
didn't occur to me to point that out that there are some beliefs where you're like, I'm not willing
to entertain error. Like, so what is your error interval that it's actually the system and not
something inherent? Sure. I think God, I'm so fucking uncomfortable even saying those words.
But I think everyone knows that you're using this as an educational example. If they don't,
they're not listening closely enough. But I think I don't know what it's like being inside your head,
obviously. But unless that's the kind of thing that you would ordinarily have not missed or
something and this is happening a lot, then it doesn't sound like usual loss. The fact that
you're uncomfortable talking about it now and you're not meeting a stranger and you're not in
public, where you could very easily be overheard making very compelling arguments for racism or
something, all of those things were in some level aware in your head and you might be
missing it, right? I know I would have definitely pushed him on it in my late teens and early 20s,
but that was when I was much more confrontational. Nowadays, I'm more like, I want people to think
good things about me and not think that, oh, maybe I'm a racist or something. Back then, I was like,
fuck yeah, I'm an atheist, eat me. I still believe that way, but I'm no longer arguing about religion
because that's gotten boring, I guess. It might just be that you're less confrontational now.
I think that's probably, that could be it. I mean, obviously, like I said, you know yourself
best, but from the outside, I'm not noticing a difference. I want to tear through the rest of
this list real quick because we have some other feedback. No, no, no, you're totally fine. I just
didn't want to go on too long. Well, I didn't mind going on. I just figured it's more the overall
length of the episode that I know you're editing that I want to keep short. Number four was access
to an intense altered mental state that this person can make usually last around five to 10
minutes triggering this generally long term cures any stress, anxiety, or insecurities I've been
struggling through recently with different levels of intensity required to trigger that mental state.
And I think what they're describing is just like kind of a mindfulness introspection. They've
they mentioned kind of spacey thinking earlier and feeling more than a mindfulness, but feeling
like I'm not the one thinking my thoughts. I think that kind of when you when you take a
mindfulness perspective and watch your thoughts form, that's from like an inherently relaxing
place. You can even be focusing on like physical pain or on like a, you know, extremely anxious
like heart race. And you just when you sit back and you say, Oh, yeah, my heart's racing. I'm
noticing that my heart's racing. That's a pretty neutral thought when you're back there having
that it's less. Yeah, but they said triggering an intense, what was it? Intense altered mental
state. That doesn't sound like the mindfulness sort of thing. That sounds more like being able to
all of a sudden flip into. They'd have to describe it more because I suppose that can mean a lot of
things. Also, not feeling like I'm the person thinking my thoughts that could be kind of a
mindfulness state of mind, or it could be disassociation, which is terrible. Yeah. Yeah.
That's true. And it looks like at the end of the last one where access to altered state of mind,
I've written more extensively about this here and they link to it. So
because I was going to say, I wish I could talk to this person and get some clarification.
I haven't read that that link yet. So maybe there's answers to all of our questions there.
Number six, shifts in belief about myself, the way I work, the things I'm curious about,
epistemics, philosophy, and ethics. These shifts are pretty severe and appear to be permanent. I
like these beliefs a lot better. That's fortunate. Yeah, which is interesting. I don't know if I had
any radical shifts other than like being more laid back and happy, but that might just come from like
the slack of having a better whatever income or life situation in general. It's hard to say.
Alternative mental reactions to alcohol. Getting drunk now feels slightly less psychedelic experience.
It's interesting. Yeah. But again, you got to keep in mind, this person took a fuck done, which is
yeah. So my internal experience and feelings of thought process are now way more nonverbal,
whereas pre-acid, they used to be full of words. I don't know if I've noticed that at all.
I think maybe that's part of what bothers me. Maybe that is what I feel when I say like,
I've been more spacey. It's definitely a little bit less verbal than I used to be.
And I mean, I know a lot of people who hate that verbal thing and I would sometimes get really
irritated at too. It's just like this chain of thought that just keeps going and going and
going. It's like a train and you can't slow down. You can't stop thinking, you know?
But on the other hand, that's also really useful if you're trying to make words as a living.
So I kind of missed that a little bit. But on the other hand, dude, having that squirrel in your
head just sucks. Do you just look at that? Racing thoughts, yeah.
I mean, that squirrel might not be gone too. It might just be. I mean, it still shows up.
It comes back to my desire to just have an interface where I can kind of turn something
on or off as needed. If only there was a way to LSD and then to un-LSD and just flip that switch
when you need it. Yeah. And this is probably a good time to remind that these experiences all
sound mostly positive for this person, where we had mostly positive experiences now comes.
That's not the case for everybody. Not everyone likes it. This isn't an endorsement to try it.
Use your best judgment. Do all your own homework. Let's see. This one's kind of long, but I'll just
read the bullet points. I'm spending more time on this than I meant to. Number nine, the mental
process I take to explain my own behaviors to myself have shifted drastically. They talk about
their shift in their mental movements around their sense of agency. I'm going to just move
past it. That's long, but it's interesting. Something to look at. I laugh way easier,
or way easier laughter. And that's number 11. I skipped around. Number 10, existential masochism.
Oh, I can actually sort of relate to this. This is a really bad way. I wouldn't have put it this way.
The sense of pleasure and pain in a mental state, in a mental sense, have been seriously
turned together. It's not that pain is any less painful or that pleasure is any less pleasurable,
probably the opposite actually. It's that they more often coexist and they tend to coexist
at greater extremes. I don't know if I'd put it that way, but for myself, I've noticed that I'm
able to, in an odd way, enjoy experiences that I don't want to repeat or I don't enjoy. Eating
food I don't like. Rather than just having this yuck reaction, eating mindfully is actually
a really interesting thing to try and do, to try and maintain a mindfulness sense of all the
sensations and stuff that are going on when you're eating. Everything from the feeling of it in your
mouth to how hard it is to chew and all that stuff, and the taste and all that. What did I just eat
in the last couple of weeks that made me think of this? Oh, it was a green olive. I went out to
this super swanky speakeasy. Rachel took me for my birthday. It was awesome. You know what?
I haven't tried a green olive in a few years. I'll try them. I regret doing this, but I was
able to backseat, experience it. I don't want to eat another one, but it wasn't an unpleasant
experience. Olive's the weirdest thing. They're only good at burning man. I've always hated olives.
I had some at Burning Man because I was hungry, and they were there, and they were really fucking
good. Hungers against home. Hungers against home, too, right? But there was something about also the
fact that they were chilled, made a big difference. But then I came home, and I bought me a can of
olives, and I was like, this is shit. What the hell happened? But it's also just been better olives.
That's crazy. I like black olives. I don't like green olives. I like all olives. They were black
olives in both cases, but I've always disliked black olives. It was just like I said, that little
minor thing of like, okay, yeah, this sucks, but I mean, I'm appreciating how it sucks.
I can comment that, too, from a mindfulness perspective, having had panic disorder,
where I read a lot of things about how to deal with panic disorder, and there was
the suggestion that you try to really tap into curiosity. You can reframe anxiety as excitement.
It doesn't always work, but I have had that work before. Or you can reframe the panic attack by
like thinking about, well, let me try to think through the process of every reaction that I'm
having right now. Okay, my heart is racing. Let me think about how that feels. Okay, my muscles
have tensed up really tight. That's interesting. If you just, you think of each step and you're
like, wow, my body's amazing that it's doing this. It's doing this because if a predator came by,
it's forcing me to hold really still. So the predator doesn't see me. That's fascinating.
And you can talk yourself through it that way. It's not necessarily turning it into enjoyment,
but it's more redirecting the negative thoughts into ones that are at least neutral.
I like that. Or helpful. I have an off air anecdote that's similar to that, but not,
it's adjacent to that that I want to talk about. We can do it an hour later. It doesn't matter if
you want to cut this out. Sure. I guess the real short version, I don't know if it has to be off
air or not, but when Rachel and I were buying, well, we went and picked out all the components that
we wanted and then got her an engagement ring, which she's, this has to not go out. Well, actually,
this will be out after. Yeah, this will be out in a week and three days. So does she listen to the
podcast? No. Oh, okay, then. But still, you know, the fewer people. But so she's getting the ring on
Sunday, which doesn't know that. So this will come out after Sunday. So that's fine. But we noticed
that after we went and kind of like, we, you know, long story short, we found the one, all the parts,
they ordered it in like a bands and stones and whatever. And we both kind of like went out to
lunch afterwards. And we're kind of like anxious. And we're like, we're not like nervous. And I'm
like, no, it just feels like nervousness. This is just excitement. But it's the sensations are
like the exact same there. You know, and so it in the moment where you're worried that you might
be nervous, it's easy to imagine that nervousness is what's going on there. But we talked about it.
And we were like, you know, described how we're feeling. And so it was that it was that sense
