Rationality AI to Zombies was arranged differently.
Rationality AI to Zombies was edited in a way that many feel was put together in a more readable
fashion. I do. I'm OG. Damn it. No, I kind of like the original. Yeah. As well, even though it is,
yeah, I think they're both good for different reasons. No, it's true. I liked the spaghetti mess
of the, of my first crawl through, which was fun, because you just, you can get a deep dive and
then you back up six more and you're like, oh, that's where I was. You kind of do the whole
wiki explosion thing. But I don't think I ever did it in a way where I wasn't clicking through a
bunch of links. So going from one to the next will be in a different way to try it. So, yeah.
Yeah, I didn't do it in any kind of order. I kind of liked that, though, because it was
neat when it started coming full circle. And then it felt like, oh, now you've got these
nice round concepts that are starting to form snowball. The first post that you hit that,
like you see it linked to a bunch of things that where you look at it and you're like,
I've already read all those. Yes. Well, when I first started out, we were, I was reading methods
of rationality. And I didn't never heard of less wrong. And it's like, I'll read the sequences
now. What is this? It actually turned me off for a while because there were so many jargony
words and just like references to things that I had no idea what they were, which wasn't even
jargon. It was just things like decision theory. Like, and then when you get into timeless decision
theory, it's like, I think that's absolutely jargon. Yeah. Well, I guess it is. But it's,
my exposure was, I think, the exact use case Yudkowsky was going for. Maybe we should talk
about this on the show. I mean, I'm recording right now. Yeah. All right. Well, we'll figure
it out then. Yeah. My exposure, I think, was exactly what Yudkowsky was going for when he wrote
methods of rationality. Because even in the first post on the sequences, it talks about how there's
no obvious public displays of rationality, like there is for like a martial artist, I don't know,
kicking someone's ass or something. So if I had to guess, well, I don't know, my educated guess is
that one of the many multi purposes of methods of rationality was to be a public display of
rationality by making a fake one of this character who could solve all these problems in a really
smart looking way, right? Oh, neat. And then when it was on fanfiction.net, the top of the book,
maybe the top of the first several chapters said, if you want to know everything Harry knows and
more, go to lesswrong.com. Yeah. And I was like, I do want that. So I went there and read all this
stuff. And then I pushed through all the jargon and got past all that. So should I do the intro
real quick? Yeah, why not? Okay, since I guess we are, we are on this. Hi. Wait, no, how do I
always start this? Welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy. I'm Yeni Ashbrotsky. I'm Steven Zuber.
And I'm Jess Dickie. Hello, Jess. Hi. She did the productivity part one, and we were going to do
productivity part two, but then it turned out we're not doing productivity part two, but we will
do other things instead. Hilariously, I didn't prepare for the productivity tools. Yes. But
that's okay, because we will have you back on later. And we like really appreciate your input,
too. In my defense, I just moved here. Yeah, it's been busy. Yeah, welcome to the Midwest.
Thank you. How are you liking it? I love it. Okay, how are you liking the weather thing?
The weather is super weird. But I kind of love it. Okay, two seasons in a day and all four in a week.
That's a reference to the fact that it was like, there was a snowstorm,
and now it's like light jacket weather and nice and sunny again. Yes. Bit of whiplash.
We're recording on Monday night. Saturday was like, drive with the windows down in a t-shirt.
And then Sunday was, yeah, cold snap. Everything was cold. Lots of snowfall. Snowfall.
Three layers and all that stuff. And then today, I left the house in three layers. And then it's
just, you know, driving with the windows down on the way home from work again. So yeah. The snow is
gone too, which is amazing because from New Jersey, when it snows, it just stays and turns brown.
I've heard of that. And that sounds horrible. It is.
To just have dirty snow around everywhere for the entire season.
It's snow and then they dump like sand onto it to, I guess, lubricate the roads and then
they dump salt onto it. And then it just becomes this horrifying slush that eats through metal.
Oh man. Not good.
No, Colorado is awesome because you will, I'm not sure if I told you this before,
but you will soon notice that whenever we get snow, it's gone from the ground in the course of
three days or so. I feel like I can tolerate snow if that's the case.
Yeah, you get it while it's beautiful. And then when it stops being beautiful, it goes away.
This is how everything in life should be. Agreed.
Yeah, we won't read too much into it. Okay, thank you.
We started talking about the less wrong posts and so we're kind of excited to get
into the sequences here. And I just decided, you know, let's start the recording and we can
keep going from there. Yeah. So in lieu of productivity, I figured we could just do,
we will, I think we can do a small section in future episodes, but for this one, we can just
do the kind of a long dive into, maybe we'll do a bit of, I don't know, meta chat about why we
think this is worth something including or talking about or if there's people who are
listening and have been listening for a while and they haven't checked this stuff out yet,
they should. And I think we'll make a case for that. So this is our big sequences kickoff.
Yay. And I also have an announcement later and then we should also do a little bit of
listener feedbacks too. So I did have at least one feedback. So excellent. Okay. So yeah. So
we were talking about how we first got into the sequences and I believe both Steven and Jess
found it through reading HPMLR. Yeah. That's correct. Excellent. So his evil plan worked.
Yeah. I mean, high five on that. I don't know what to say. Didn't what was the spike in numbers?
Was there or there was some survey on Slate Star Codex for years ago? What was like what?
Fully a third of readers came from less or came from Methods of Rationality? Yeah. Yeah.
Hey, it worked. Yeah. I got I got there because Trula Gailiff plugged it on her podcast years and
years ago. I remember I was delivering pizzas at the time and I made a note when I was driving,
which I shouldn't have done. I think I was on a stoplight, hopefully. I was saying,
check this out and wrote like Methods of Rationality and then got around to it like months
later that I found this little note and yeah. Found it from, I think it was a
Rebecca Watson from the Skeptics Guide had actually recommended it as like, oh, here's a fun like
scientific based Harry Potter fanfic and I started reading it and I thought like some
smart ass college student was writing it and I had heard of Elieze Hikowski separately,
but it was like I was like a good way into the story before I realized that he was the one writing
it and it was weird. But I was really addicted to it. I read all of it and then I caught up and
then I was really sad. I actually started reading less wrong before there was a less wrong.
I don't remember how I got turned on to Robin Hansen's blog, but a lot of my time during the day
at work is, you know, you can't just work eight hours straight all the time. So if you're at a
desk job every now and then you take a break, you go to your favorite blog, someone links something,
and at some point I got linked over to Overcoming Bias, which is Robin Hansen's blog. And at the
time, Eliezer was co-blogging with him there. I think he was still a student of Robbins,
or if not still at the time, you know, he still had good relations with him,
but he had been a student of Robbins over at GMU. A student or worked with him or something.
All I know is that they co-wrote Overcoming Bias or worked on it together. I didn't know that
he was a foremost, was he ever enrolled? Because I don't think that he went to college.
That's a good point. Must have been like protege in some other way. But he,
Overcoming Bias is Robin Hansen's blog. And Eliezer, and actually a few other people
co-blogged with him for a while, but Eliezer started there. And the first, I don't know,
like year or so of Less Wrong Posts were actually posted on OvercomingBias.com,
which is like important context because whenever, in the beginning, he will talk a few times about
Overcoming Biases and what is a bias and all that. And the context of that is he's literally
posting on a blog called OvercomingBias.com. So he's co-hosting with Robin. And even though
the sequence, the very first post is the beginning of his sequences, there's this history where
they have been talking on the blog already for a while, various readers and other co-bloggers.
So he references some conversation that's been going on. And that's because this,
you know, it just sort of started up in the middle of a talk about biases and rationality in general.
That explains why it seems like there's prerequisite reading.
I don't think there... It's the wrong word. Yeah.
Well, it sounds like you're starting in the middle of things, not the beginning of a book.
Yeah. Because, you know, even in the first essay, which maybe many of the links I think
were added after, but going back to find them, and even at the time, I'm assuming it links to
OvercomingBias articles. So it certainly doesn't open the first page in a book.
Right. Yeah.
So we are going to be reading the actual original sequences as they posted,
instead of Rationality AI to Zombies, just because, I don't know, that's how I read it,
and I like it better that way. But Rationality AI to Zombies is probably the way to go for
most people. And there are now two separate podcasts of the Rationality AI to Zombies,
in case people want to follow along with that, we will link to both of them.
And also, I don't think we mentioned explicitly what that is. So Rationality AI to Zombies came
out like two years ago, less. Something like that. And it's a recomposite of the original
sequences. It left some, it cut some stuff out. It more importantly reorganized things into like
six or something chunks that are more sensible than kind of just like the more self-contained.
Yeah. And also kind of stream of consciousness. Exactly. Yeah. Then the stream of consciousness,
that kind of afterwards, you can demark where things happened and that sort of thing. So.
Yeah. I think that's the main reason I like the blog posts, because they are very much a stream
of consciousness. And you get to see both Eliezer's personality and humor. And it feels very much more
like having a conversation with someone or seeing them be them. Whereas the Rationality AI to Zombies
is much more about trying to put forth this Rationality thing and present it to people in
acceptable way, which is good. But also, you know, less what I like, I guess. Yeah. I don't need to
read a persuasive article about why I should be a Rationalist. Right. You're already there.
I was, yeah, I was going to say what you said, that it feels like you're having a conversation
with the writer. The other thing about it too is that if I remember correctly, didn't he write
the bulk of them writing a post a day for two years? Yes. Yeah. So it very much is like a,
I'm already thinking of the next thing while I'm writing this one, not once a week or two or
something where it has a long editing process and that sort of thing. Right. Well, his goal was to
write basically Rationality AI to Zombies. I mean, he didn't have that name for it yet,
but he wanted to write this book and he couldn't sit down and write down all 800 pages in a go.
But he's like the way I'm motivating myself is just to write one post a day every day.
And, you know, getting that little dopamine hit at the end of every day when people see it and
comment on it and talk about it and upvote it and stuff. And it worked out extremely well,
because he got through all, I don't know, 12,000 pages or whatever in pretty quick time.
Yeah. Let's jump into it. That sounds good. Okay. The first post is called The Martial Art of
Rationality. And this is basically talking about what he wants to do, how he wants to create a
art of rationality that will help people think. It's kind of like an introductory post, except
unlike most introductions, which are really boring. And you just want to skip them. This one's
actually interesting. Yeah, I think in addition to being interesting, I feel like this is probably
a decent litmus test for anyone who like wants to try these out. Or if you're sharing them with
somebody, you know, if you're going to try to force the sequences on a friend, I might show them
this one first, A, because it seems like here's what we're going to be covering over the next,
you know, like he said, a hundred posts or a thousand posts or pages, however long you said
it was. But it's also written the same kind of conversational style. It's not like I'm writing
an essay and you can find it if you want. It's very much like a one-sided dialogue. And it has
the familiar, familiar if you've read it before, but the same flavor as the whole rest of the
sequences. Yeah, it sounds like him. It has his voice already. Right. And it's got some of the kind
of jargon. And it just, if you're not interested in what kind of things we're going to talk about
here, then you're like, OK, this isn't for me. But if you are, then you're like, oh, shit. And
there's so much more to go. And then you get to dive into it. So yeah, this has a lot of links now
that I think weren't there originally. Yeah. The apparently they were someone did go through and
link a lot of things that were not linked originally because there's links to the less
wrong wiki here. And there was no less wrong.com at all at the time. So there's there's a bunch
of things linked here that weren't linked originally. So this is more beginner friendly now.
Yeah, a little bit. But also, I mean, one of the nice things about when I first
was reading this was that, you know, the first post didn't have any links at all, you know,
and there's nothing more beginner friendly than just being able to read through a thing without
having to click through, I guess. Oh, I like being able to. I mean, I'm addicted to Wikipedia.
It's an option. Yeah. Right. So if you want to just read it, you can. But if you want to dive into
some of the linkable things, then you can say, OK, what was this talking about?
Right. And then boom, you get an explanation. So yeah, something I wish that they would
incorporate into this is Wikipedia has that feature where you hover over something now and
it gives you like the one paragraph explanation. That would be great to have in the future.
That would be what developers iPhones try to do that with like the newer ones with the push
touch, like the 3D touching. Hey, yeah, it's not the ubiquitous technology, but also
it's kind of annoying. I guess I'm new to having one. But if you don't push hard enough the whole
time, then it thinks you clicked it up into the page. And it doesn't do a preview. It does
a full look. It does like a little page inside the page that shows what you're about to look at.
So that does seem annoying. Yeah. I'm talking about just mousing over something and then
moving the cursor away if you don't want to read it anymore. Yeah. One of the things I really
dislike using the web on the phone because you can't hover over things with the mouse and just
the mouse is such a much better tool than these fat dumb fingers that only have one button.
Well, hopefully Elon Musk will have our neural interface and then we'll just be able to look at
it and blink or something. I don't know. We'll find out. Not even blink, just kind of think.
Yeah. I want to hit that link. That one. One of the first quotes that I'm going to pull out of
this is him explaining that this is what he wants to do is different from like a specialized
education that people get. He compares it to a martial art saying a martial art just trains
your muscles. If you have the human universal complex machinery of a hand with tendons and
muscles in the appropriate places, then you can learn to make a fist. If you have a brain with
cortical and subcortical areas in the appropriate places, you might be able to learn to use it
properly. It's about training brain machinery we all have in common, which I thought was a
really cool way to look at this. It's not, you know, about learning specific facts and stuff.
It's about learning how to use this machinery that we all have. One thing that the sequences
does over and over is emphasize that the brain, yes, while complicated and not 100% fully understood,
is not this opaque, impossible to penetrate black box of mystery, right? There's all these parts.
They're all the same parts in every head of every human on earth, more or less. There's less mystery
there than I think is generally appreciated. Analogous to your fist making skills, you have
all the right brain parts for this to work for you too. Right. And there's a bad way to make a
fist and try to hurt someone with your hand and there's a much more effective way to do it.
Just like there's bad ways to use your brains and there's much more effective ways to use them.
What's the, you know, so if you make a fist wrong and punch a board, you'll break your hand.
Right. What's the, what's the analog for that if you're using your brain?
You start believing crazy things. And I try to like apply everything to one model.
Over that. Yeah. There's a lot of ways.
All right. I just thought I'm thinking of like specifically like the explosive way, but yeah,
maybe that's it is you did the bad way to really bad way to use your brain, this analogous to
