of being aware of how you're feeling and being able to analyze it on that level. It was just
similar. But it wasn't, it wasn't so much redirecting or realigning how you're looking at it. But it
was just recognizing that two sensations can be tied to very different emotions that some people
dislike or like, right? People like being excited, but they hate being nervous.
It's a lot of the same like neural pathways and a lot of the same physical sensations,
which is interesting. Like a racing heartbeat can be excitement, or serotonin and dopamine can
cause serotonin can cause you to be aggressive or can cause you to be happy.
Didn't realize it could cause you to be aggressive.
I think so, unless I'm thinking of different neurotransmitters.
No, it's very well me. I don't know shit about serotonin.
All I know is that elephants have oxytocin releases when they see humans,
which we have oxytocin releases when we see puppies. And so it means that elephants think
that we're cute. And that that's a really cute thought for me to have. And if they think it's
cute, then I think it's cute that they think we're cute, then we get this awesome feedback
cycle and we're just rolling around. So your oxytocin is releasing right now when you think
about elephants thinking humans are cute. That's right. All right. Was that all of them?
Yes. But like I said, last takeaway that drugs are hazardous. Everyone should be educated
to the extent that they're comfortable with. And if you do decide to ever try anything,
try to get it from somebody you trust, do it in a safe and comfortable setting with
people that you're relaxed around. In that same vein, Scott Alexander pointed out that
some people have permanent reactions to hallucinogens. He said, I think it was like one,
one to 2% of people who take them have some sort of permanent hallucination effect afterwards.
Which is like, seems like a lot. That seems like a lot. I feel like I'd have heard about that in
my homework, but I'll take his word for it. I think he was confused by it too. We personally
know someone who has permanent hallucinations. Well, we don't know if they had that before they
had lots of drugs. I can't remember if they said that it caused it. I think it started with it.
He took an amount of acid that is ungodly large and if it was possible to have a lethal overdose
of acid, he would have lethally overdosed. Your mileage will almost certainly bury.
Be careful with drugs, kids. Drugs are bad. To be clear, I think I've done a total of
400 micrograms in the last year and a half. You did 400 micrograms at a time period greater than
the statute of limitations for being prosecuted for that. I'm the kind of person who would lie
about taking drugs for the social esteem that it gives me. If you're the NSA listening to this,
that's what's happening here. That took a lot longer than I meant for it to. I thought it was
interesting because this is something that I look back on once in a while and think about because
my personality is a little different, my life is different, all that stuff.
And you're like, how much of that was LSD and how much was it other things?
I was expecting very little of it was, but I think it's likely that some of it could have been.
So that's why I wanted to bring that up. What episode was that in response to?
I think 36. Let me double check the email. Yep. 36, the other kind of drugs because I think the one
we had before that, Neutropics. Yeah. Episode 35 was Neutropics. I have one listener feedback.
Actually, I have two listener feedbacks, but the other, the second one is really long. So I'm
going to wait for that one until next week. I have a really short listener feedback from Simula
Crumpet, which says, Eneosh, your point about natural speed limit seems odd to me as people
construct roads. Often the government has it happens. And before I continue reading the rest of
the comment, yes, people construct roads, but the concept of a natural speed limit is like,
I actually know a civil engineer who I think is retired now. I'm not sure. I'll have to ask her
again. But roads are recognized to have a quote unquote natural speed limit, which is the limit
that drivers want to drive on a road based on how it's constructed. Roads that are wider,
that have large shoulders that are straight, that aren't on an incline all tend to lend themselves
to being driven on faster multiple lanes helps. If there's like a something solid in the median,
that you can not drive over that also helps. So all these things are things that give roads a
certain natural speed limit that feels the right speed to drive on a road on that this is a very
well known thing in civil engineering. And that is why I get really annoyed when there's a road
that it is very obvious everyone would be driving 40 to 45 on this. And the speed limit is set to
something like 30 so that the cops can just sit there and write tickets. I'm like, fuck you,
don't do that. There's a natural speed limit. And honestly, there used to not be defined speed
limits on roads, you know, people would just drive on what was the safe limit and cops would
sometimes patrol roads. And if someone was driving obviously too fast and recklessly,
they would pull them over because the cop knows what the space safe speed limit on road is too.
And this also changes with technology as cars get better and safer. And, you know,
can hug the road better can break better people take that into account. And so the natural speed
limit goes up. But that also leads to things like cops saying, Oh, I pulled you over because you
were driving at too fast of a speed, in my opinion, when it's someone they don't like,
right, is a racial minority, or does someone specifically they know, but it was used as a
tool for oppression. And now now having numbers, they can't say they were driving too fast,
they're driving 26 and 25, unless they're going to take it everybody that same way, right? Right.
So I mean, that kind of limited that. But then the cops just found other reasons to pull over
black people. Totally. Yeah. So the natural speed limit is also something that they're
trying to teach self driving cars. It's been one of the frustration points, because they started
out trying to teach self driving cars what the actual rules of the road said and then found out
that like, psychologically, nobody drives like that. The textbook rules of the road. That's
actually really interesting. I hadn't thought about that. But that's obviously got to be the case,
right? If you're going 75 in the interstate, and everyone else is doing 85, you're going to be a
dangerous risk. So that that's obviously true. But it didn't occur to me what legal hoops you'd
have to jump through to say, look, we're gonna have the car speed, but only when everyone else is
speeding. I guess, I guess it all has to come down to the numbers and say, look, my cars don't
crash. That was what Elon said a couple of times during the podcast he did with Joe Rogan,
where Rogan had asked if he'd seen that video of the guy falling like asleep, you know,
snoring at the wheel in traffic. And he was like, I've seen it. The cars don't let you do that
anymore. We put out an update. Now, if you don't just the wheel for a while, it slows down,
honks at you and pulls you over the side of the road. So wow. But I wish I could afford a Tesla.
But then he had said, Hey, you know what? At the very least, he didn't crash. Our cars don't
crash. Other cars crash. Ours don't crash. He has this way of kind of punctuating his little points
like that over and over. So it's awesome. Yeah. Continuing the comment, it seems like the winding
side road and the speed limit actually constrain your behavior in similar ways. And no, the winding
side road constrains it, you know, much more naturally where the speed limit is an artificial
limiter is my my counter to this. Anyways, similar crumpet asks if hypothetically, the
government removed all speed limits, but reconstructed the road. So driving speeds
didn't change. Would you prefer this? Yes, they have done that. Oh, God, yes. They've experimented
with the how happy they've taken away like stop signs, street lights and speed limits. And people
do naturally drive safer than they would otherwise. Well, oftentimes, even in really complicated
intersections, because people autopilot, but when they're forced to pay attention and look
around, see if there's pedestrians or actually communicate with other drivers, then they are
able to drive more safely, getting less accidents. I think that would actually probably slow down
the natural flow of traffic quite a bit, because one of the things that green lights and red lights
let us do is streamline that you don't have to pay as much attention and you can go faster
through these intersections. But but yes, I do think that if you want a road to be a 35 mile per
hour road, you engineer it to be a 35 mile per hour road. That's why suburbs, people who live
in the suburbs, or at least when I was a kid, I asked the suburbs, why the fuck are these streets
so windy? They go nowhere. Like what what is the purpose of this? The purpose is literally to make
people slow down and to not use the streets as shortcuts, because you just you don't do that
on those sorts of streets. That's exactly how I get to work. I take exclusively back roads,
other than this like quarter mile stretch. But I can't go 40 on those. I do go like 30. So yeah,
yeah, that that I mean, in your case, it's faster because the main roads are so clogged up that
going 30 on back roads is better than being on the main road. And I'm not the I'm not the only
person the way I discovered the the the rest of this back route was I saw it in my rear view mirror
like because I just moved to I don't know in May. And I was taking this new way I was trying to find
the you know, save a minute on my short commute to the train stop. And I saw three or four cars
in my rear view mirror turned on this side street that I'd only barely seen before. And I'm like,
they can't all be just live down there at eight in the morning, where are they all going? So I
went that way the next day and it led to where I usually looped back around to get to. Nice. But
yeah, I guess speed bumps are like another way to get around that, which is like, yeah, the road
straight, you could totally pedal the metal this and get up to 80 before you've got a turn. But
we're gonna put in these speed bumps to stop you lest you destroy your car. Yeah. So although I've
heard and I don't know if I've never verified this that speed bumps cost more lives than they save.
That sounds like something that's too easy to say. But I think the idea that emergency vehicles
can't barrel down the street towards your house is the is the argument that I heard. But this sounds
super made up now that sounds too simplistic. Yeah, it seems like that wouldn't that wouldn't
come into play very often. How often are emergency vehicles coming down your specific side street
to save you? And how do you measure how many lives they've saved? Was it saving lives because
it was like making the emergency vehicles arrive more slowly? I think that's what was costing lives.
And then the saving life aspect was like people are speeding less and hitting fewer people. Now
that I say that out loud, I'm actually glad I did because that sounds like a totally I'm guessing
that's a very wrong sound bite that I heard once and committed to memory and now I can throw out as
obvious garbage. So if anyone has any real numbers and that I'm curious, but all right, we should
wrap this up because it is over two hours and I'm gonna have a lot of editing to do. This is
Yunish interjecting after the fact we forgot to mention in the episode what the next two sequences
posts are. In two weeks, we will discuss the proper use of humility and the modesty argument.
Links to both posts will be included with this episode. You can get them, as always,
at our website, TheBaseinConspiracy.com. Before we go, I would like to thank our Patreon supporter.
We want to thank all our Patreon supporters actually. In the last over the last two episodes,
we have gotten like just a flood of support recently. And I mean, it's little amounts, but
just seeing all these people like wanting to support us and being like, Hey, we like your
thing has really made me feel happy over the past few weeks, because there was a long stretch of
period where we just didn't get new people. And now we just got what I call a flood. I think it was
like three from each episode of the past two episodes. That felt like a lot to me, you know,
and it just made me feel much happier. Yeah, I get the notifications on my phone and I see them
and it brightens my day. And it does mean, I don't know how to, I say this every time and I feel
awkward saying, because it's like, thanks for the money. And it is, but at the same time, it
it says something and it makes me feel odd in a way that you'll have to carefully edit that
people care about this enough to throw some money at it. So yeah, like I said, one of these days,
we'll put this towards, I think I would definitely benefit from a mic that I could walk around using.
I know that they make some nice Bluetooth ones that, you know, have a mic that attaches because
I don't sit still very well, as you might have noticed over the last couple of years.
I think much better when I'm on my feet. Yeah, so I when I'm on the phone, I pace all the time.
Maybe we should get both of you guys like some microphones. Yeah, get some of those pacing ones.
I've got one that work that I use that works really well. I haven't recorded on it. So I don't
know if it comes out really well, but it works great for phone calls at work. I might just
bring home and use that once in a while. The thing is, it doesn't come with a case and it's
$300 and I don't want to break it, but I'll find some careful way to get this thing home.
As a cheaper option, we could get those ridiculous bouncy balls.
Bouncy balls? The ones that you sit in, they're supposedly orthopedic. You're shaking your head,
Steven. I just wanted, I need to be up moving my feet, but I can't move my body in a bouncy ball.
That's true. And those are 15 bucks. So I had one of those ones. What did I do with it? I don't know.
My former coworkers never going to listen to this, but we all got bouncy balls at one point,
like kind of just to be like sarcastic, but he like fell off the bouncy ball and injured himself
and put a hole in the wall. So there you go. And then I've read a bunch of things about how
they're not actually like orthopedic. And I don't know. There's a lot of injuries related to them.
Holy shit. There's only one person at my office who uses them on the floor of about 100 people.
And I don't know them that well. So I won't point out like, Hey, this is a stupid idea.
But if they were on my team, I'd point that out. So I also want to point out that in the last episode,
we talked about Petrov Day. And we had a listener who wanted to remain anonymous,
send in a cool little picture that they made. Yeah. And it's on the episode description now.
Cool. So if you look at the description for last episode, it's, it shows up there. I also made
the picture for this week or this month's meetup on Facebook, but we can post on this episode too.
Yeah, let's do that. Yeah. But definitely check it out. It's fun.
Uh, so the, the Patreon supporter we want to specifically think this week is Lyric Lee.
Lyric Lee. Big shout out, big fan. Yeah. You're awesome person. Thanks, Lyric.
The person we know personally. Yeah. So this is more, more endearing sentiment to them because
I haven't known who they are. So high five. You rock. All right. And also thank you, Jess, for
coming in and being on mic with us today. I know this is, you know, a lot of time out of your day
and not exactly the easiest thing to do. So no, it's super fun. And I think it's important.
Like I have terrible stage fright slash social anxiety and I'm trying to push myself into doing
more things that will give me exposure therapy. This has been really like fun the two times that
I'm doing it and I'd like to be on again. Awesome. Thanks. Yeah, totally. And if this,
if the externality of you trying to better yourself as you accidentally making the show
awesome, then hey, we'll take it. Cool. All right. Thanks, everybody. And we'll see you in a couple
weeks. Boom. Bye. Bye.
