I'm hitting E, I'm hitting F sharp, you just want to have that desire and your body goes through
with it. And the reason I think that the martial art of rationality is called that is because you
also want to inculcate that sort of almost muscle memory reflex in your brain where you just do it
the right way. I have those and I like noticing when those bells go off in my head. Not for
everything. I wish that obviously they were louder and more salient and all that, but
there are probably other examples like that, you know, like good body mechanics, you know,
if you notice you're slouching or something, you know, you often don't notice until you're
uncomfortable, but if you can train yourself to like check in every few seconds or three minutes
or something, you're like, oh, I'm slouching my shoulders. Let me get more comfortable.
I like that there's tools for that now. Posture, like for example, they have those like posture
braces that you can wear or they have an app or not an app. It was a wearable that would alert you.
I think it vibrated when you were slouching. It would be cool if we could have those for our
brains. I saw one of those like on your lower back or something. I definitely saw something
that would alert you know, alert you about your posture that was like an adhesive that connected
to a computer that would vibrate a patch of muscle or something. That's probably the thing
I'm thinking of. I don't remember what it was called. If I could probably find it, we could link
it, but I'm just a big wearable nerd, but I keep, you know, I really want there to be ones for your
brain. There's tried to be a few of them and other. So, so we should do an episode on wearables.
That sounds fun. Yeah. Or like a technology that can assist with rationality.
Well, and since I got LASIK, I'm not wearing literally anything that helps me do anything.
So, I mean, other than clothes to keep me from shivering. That's right. Do you have your phone
on you? I'm not wearing it though. It's over here. Well, LASIK itself is awesome though. Yeah, that's
true. Now I'm wearing glasses all the time. Let's see. I think, oh, there's another similar to
training physical habits from martial arts or mental habits from rationality. It's sort of an
introspection habit through like mindfulness meditation. If you get enough practice at it,
you kind of just learn to notice the swaying and tone of your thoughts. Before I got more into this,
I could come home, you know, after a day or something and someone could point out,
be like, oh, it looks like you had a rough day. And it's at that minute that I realized I had a
rough day because it was showing on my face, but it wasn't, I wasn't looking at it myself.
And having the tricks to look in to see the introspect in that other direction, not just
on your cognitive processes, but your thinking and feeling, it kind of helps me keep all those
in check. I don't have extreme days anymore because I'm having a rough day. I can look
in and be and notice, well, you're having a rough day. That's why this is being super,
you know, that's why this thing that doesn't usually annoy you is annoying you or something.
And you can stage an intervention. Yeah, totally. And I think it can be pretty effective.
So other, this is tried and true with other disciplines is what I'm saying too. And I'm
trying to, I'm trying to name several in case somebody has tried meditation or, you know,
martial arts or body posture or something. And they're like, Oh, you know, you can't,
I'm trying to draw analogies to as many things as possible.
Yeah, there are some similar practices like cognitive behavioral therapy.
All that being said, before we finally move on to the next post, I don't think that
reading the sequences will make you a rationalist master. I think it'll just lay out the groundwork
much like seeing someone do kung fu and learning the theory behind it will
show you what it is and get you set in the right direction. But you actually have to
do it over and over to practice it. Like this is just reading the sequences is the first step,
I guess. Last example. And this is more specific. Drake has been picking up juggling the last few
months. And juggling is super fucking hard. And you look at it and from it's like watching,
you know, Jackie Chan do do kung fu on TV and it's like, Oh, yeah, I could do that. It's just
moving your arms. And it's, it's, yes, it's just moving your arms, but there's a lot more to it
than that. And, you know, the one like the cartoon example of juggling where you're doing a circle
is like one of the hardest things. There's so much coordination there. It's easier to do the kind
of cross thing. But I'm assuming as Drake, because he knows more about juggling than I do. But
my understanding is that doing the circle is way harder than it looks. And it's way harder
than it looks, but it's, it's, it looks super easy. It's just a couple of hand motions, right?
How hard can it be? But it turns out to be very difficult. So.
Yeah, I think a lot of the art of mastering something is the art of making it look easy.
I know at some circus artists, and they always looked like, you know, they do a flip. They'd
be juggling, they'd be eating fire and they're smiling and they have these like flowing nice
graceful movements. But actually, like, I've done some fire arts and it's really hard not to flinch
or to look at the fire while you're doing it. And I'm the same thing with juggling. I've tried
to pick that up before. And if you can see someone very like naturally, you know, juggling, smiling,
looking at you, not looking at what they're doing, that actually means that they're very skilled at it.
I just had the realization that I think you're right, that master over something is making
it look easy. And I'm trying to think of counter examples. And there really aren't any
that are coming to mind, I'm sure, with five minutes, we could probably think of some. But
it's really good to think about it, that if it looks really easy, it's only because I'm really,
really good at it. And so you look at this and you see how nonchalantly I'm doing this thing,
you think you could pick it up really easily, right? Okay. Part of what makes it really hard
to communicate that something is difficult. Like for example, drawing. Oh my god. Yeah,
I can't draw either. Yeah, well, I have a few illustrator friends now and they say the amount
of time that they hear someone say, look, can't you just draw me the thing? It's really easy,
it'll only take you like 10 minutes. Like first of all, it takes longer than that.
Second of all, it took me eight years of practice to get to the point where I could do this. You
think it's so easy, you go do it. Yeah, as a freelance graphics designer, it's hard to explain
to a client that you should pay me more because I can do this in less time because it took me
longer to learn how to do this in less time. Yeah. I remember hearing about a locksmith guy
who was like, when he would show up and you know, someone's paying him $60, $80 to come in
and unlock their thing, he shows up, he's been doing this for 20 years, does click, click, click,
okay, you're open. And they would be like really kind of peeved. And they're like,
you don't really need $80 for that, do you? He says, nowadays, lots of times if he has,
you know, an extra five minutes, he'll sit there and you're like, just do it. And he's like, oh man,
this is a tough one. And just fuck around for a while before he undoes it. And then they're always
so grateful. I should do that. I don't know how I could do that with graphics design.
I just make it take longer. I'm sorry, I might miss this deadline, man.
Bring my laptop. Bring lots of like useless gadgets, line them all up.
Oh, don't do it in front of someone. Oh my god. No, I don't want to be doing art in front of
someone, then they'd be over your shoulder. Yeah. Oh, can you make it a slightly bluer green? No,
not that much. Oh, no, I don't think I like that one. Go back to the yellow. Wait, let me see them
side by side. The only thing I can think of to do it that wouldn't involve a lot of like just
straight up lying about like how long something took you to do or something would be to just
use tons of jargon and like name drop all the complicated tools and stuff that you can think
of. So they'd be like, oh, can yeah, like I said, kind of get this different color. Well,
you know, according to this, you know, send back, I don't know, like 60 hex codes, you know,
for the colors or something. I have done that. Yeah. And it's like, yes,
I'm going to pick the best one out of those and you can't even you can't even see what those
mean. So that's fun to think about. It's fun to do. Why truth? Yeah, sure. Why truth, Enyosh?
That's actually the question of this post. There are three potential reasons he gave
why seeking why to seek truth, which is a thing that I think we generally do as rationalists.
The first reason was to satisfy curiosity. Lots of times you just want to know the truth because
you're curious, which I'm a big fan of personally. And I didn't, I didn't write down the pros and
cons of that one, unfortunately. But I think one of the obvious cons that he mentioned is that
sometimes you're just not curious. You'll only pursue it so far until it gets tedious or maybe
it gets too hard at some point. And you're like, well, I'm not that curious about the truth here.
And I don't remember if there's something that he brings up in this post or if he brings up at
all or if I thought of, but curiosity to me is like an emotion. It can drive the other emotions,
like it can get you exhilarated or something like that. But that feeling of like, huh,
that has a distinct feeling for me. And it's one that I enjoy. So I think curiosity for its own
sake or truth for its own sake, I think is a valid response to somebody might ask, you know,
why bother? Yeah, it's a valid response. I don't know if it's sufficient, but it's definitely
a good component to a well rounded answer. I like curiosity. Curiosity to me is like,
almost feels like sexuality or a sexual desire, you know, it's just something you want to do
because you haven't innate want for it. And it can get like uncontrollably, you know, high too.
No, I mean, that can be a thing. There's this drive. It's maybe that feeling of like, when you
lose your car keys. And it's almost like curiosity. But it's like that turn, it's like that tuned up,
there's maybe a little more agitation built into it. But the longer you're looking for them,
the more intense the feeling, right? And you're like, and then I guess, yeah, I sometimes think
of curiosity as an itch as well. It's just like, something you really got to just, and then when
it stops, then it's like, ah, that felt great. I fucking love having Google in my pocket all
the time now, because I can't even kind of put a number on how many times a day, I'll like,
Oh, what's that bird? Hey, I'll Google it. No, I know what that bird is. And nobody in our past
has ever been able to do that. It's crazy. And he has a rodent essay at one point about the,
I think it was 12 virtues of rationality. Yeah. And I think curiosity was the first one, right?
Curiosity is the first one. Yeah. We should maybe have done the 12 virtues, maybe we'll pull them
up for this episode too. Yeah, he says first, first, it was curiosity in the essay. Okay. Also,
we were saying about emotions, what he actually says was, some people I suspect may object that
curiosity is an emotion, and therefore not rational. But he labels an emotion is not rational
if it rests on mistaken beliefs rather than on irrational epistemic conduct.
Hey, I like trying to explain that difference to somebody I used to know, that if you tell them,
if you say you shouldn't be feeling that way, that sounds like you're challenging their feelings.
When in fact, it's not so much, I'm not challenging your feelings, I'm challenging the
beliefs that your feelings are based on. When you realize those beliefs are false,
your feelings should go away. But with somebody who doesn't speak that language,
it just comes off as super annoying. That's a common problem with people that are systemizers
versus empathizers, where for example, they feel like you're invalidating their feelings, and it's
like, I'm not trying to tell you that you're not having that feeling. I've gotten better at it.
I'm working on that right now. I've mostly run into people who say things like, well,
you're a rationalist, so you think no one should have emotions, right? And to continue the quote
word that you were writing, he says, if the iron approaches your face, and you believe it is hot,
and it is cool, the way opposes your fear. If the iron approaches your face, and you believe it is
cool, and it is hot, the way opposes your calm. And Spock's emotional state is always set to calm,
even when it's wildly inappropriate. The emotions, when they actually reflect reality,
are rational things. Like if the iron approaching your face is hot, you do want to panic. That is
the rational thing to feel at that point. I like that he specifically wrote that, this has the
advantage of letting us regard calm as an emotional state rather than a privileged default. And as
a person who has chronic anxiety, I can agree with that. That is a privileged state. And it would
be bad if we were just calm all the time. Anxiety does have a place. There's a lot of things to
not be calm about. Like ex threats. Yeah, existential threats, which are the threats that
could wipe out humanity. Right. All of our dooms. So I want to dive into that a little bit, because
I think calm, how would Spock, shouting and waving his arms on the board, the enterprise help anything?
Well, it might not aboard the enterprise, but there are times where it's a really bad idea to do
something. And he does not act like it's a bad idea. Well, also Spock is like no realistic person
acts the way Spock does. Spock was able to still prioritize something as being highly important,
and but like maintain calm. But the way humans work is that we experience anxiety and stress in
response to predators chasing you, or social conflicts that are coming up. So you can't really
just divorce the emotion from the response, because we don't work that way. It would be lovely if we
did. No, totally. And to be clear, I haven't seen a single episode of Star Trek. So I'm probably
missing something. But well, I doubt I doubt if Spock was being chased by some space line, he would
stand there calmly, he would calmly run away. Right. I the original series was not a very good
series. I thought there was one or two good episodes, but I haven't seen all that many of them either,
because I just didn't like it. And Spock was a lot of fun, because he was so inhuman and weird,
I think that was this whole point. Yeah. And I think I mentioned Julia Gallup earlier, I think
she coined the phrase straw Vulcan, which is what people think of when they think rationalists,
if they're not familiar. I think that's gotten, well, I think my circles gotten more rationalist
in the last several years. But I feel like that's less of a trope now than it used to be. But maybe
it's still the same. I might just be the bubble that you're in. It's probably definitely the bubble
now that I think about it. And Spock was totally a straw Vulcan in that show. There was, I don't
remember what episode it was, but like, some natives were really upset, and they were throwing
spears at this shuttle that they were in. He's like, it is entirely illogical for them to be
throwing spears at us. And McCoy's like, you're fucking idiot, Spock. And yeah, Spock was being
a fucking idiot at that point. So I guess I'm assuming by illogical, I'm guessing that the
spears couldn't penetrate their shields or something. I think that's what it was. I don't
remember. So he's making a completely pointless observation, which is, yeah, so let's throw
out his bad use of the word illogical and just he could say they're wasting their time. And that's
true. But it's kind of, again, he's wasting his time saying that. But he doesn't understand why
they're doing it, which is a failure on his part. Yeah, totally. They're mad. And that is their
motivation, you know? Yeah, exactly. Well, they had a good reason to be mad. They didn't have a
good reason to throw spears because they actually wanted to hurt them, I'm guessing, right? I believe
so. Yeah. What they should have done is, I don't know, found some big rocks to push off a cliff
onto the ship or something. But he was implying that since it is impossible for them to hurt the
ship, they shouldn't be even feeling anger right now. It is an illogical emotion. Okay, yeah,
that's done. Yeah. Okay, I'm sold. I think he was totally a straw Vulcan. Which made it fun. I'm not
defending him. I realize that he's literally the straw man on purpose. But the the idea that
but it's interesting how many people I mean, he was he was a fun character. But there's also a
lot of people that look up to him. And I don't know, I've read a few of their accounts. And it's
usually people who are like really emotionally hurt at some point and didn't want to be anymore.
And so like, saw that sort of thing as a sort of armor and vulnerability, you know, you can't
hurt me if I don't care. Yeah. And so, you know, there was, there was that aspect to it too, where
this was important to people for other reasons than just making fun of things. And I'm assuming
some strength. I'm assuming also pulled a bunch of like smart ass, not just smart ass, but also
smart stuff out, right? Oh, he was always the one that was my guy, I bring their way out of
shit. Right. So it's like wanting to be more like Dr. House because he's a super genius by
taking Vicodin, right? Or by abusing. So it's like, you're not going to get any more like house
by by abusing drugs just because that's a thing he does, right? So you're emulating the wrong
part of it. Yeah. Okay. And there is some advantage to not getting too worked up, because sometimes
you can, you know, lose control of yourself and you shouldn't. Yeah. All right, we're still on to
why truth. Yes, we got two more, we've got at least two more good answers. Another one was to
accomplish a specific goal. Because if you're seeking truth to accomplish that goal, you get
feedback on what modes of thinking work and which don't. What sets humanity firmly on the
path of science was noticing that certain modes of thinking uncovered beliefs and that led us
manipulate the world. Like it's sometimes really important whether doing this thing will make the
