to, right? Yeah, it'd be like, if it really mattered, like what an author meant when they
used a sentence or something, and you could sit, we could sit and argue about it for an hour,
or you could shoot them a text and they'd be like, I meant this. It's like, boom, done. All right,
cool. There's also the matter of comparative value of time. Like I realized in this case,
it was absolutely worth the time. But every now and then I, my boss is like,
way a bit more busy than she should be, to be honest. She is at work 12 hours a day, just about
every day. And I know sometimes there's a problem I could go to her and she could probably help me
figure it out in about five minutes. And for me, it would take a good half hour to 45 minutes to
puzzle this thing out. But on the other hand, if I'm in the slow part of the month, I'm not doing
anything in that half hour to 45 minutes anyway. And if I can save for that five minutes, it's
probably worth it. Yeah. And this is, I mean, this would be especially the case for things like
artificial intelligences, you know, maybe if they're working on something really super important,
you don't want to take one minute of their time, if it takes you a month to figure out something,
because their time is just that valuable that you're better off spending that month.
But they're not human. So they could do multiple things at once.
We're assuming that they're up at the limit of their technological capabilities or something.
Well, for this argument. Well, let's further destroy your argument and point out that the
machine is running on machine speed, we're running on meat speed.
Right. That's why I said a minute. And for that, let's take a month.
So, well, yeah, for them, well, I guess what problem could it probably take us a month to
solve that would, I guess, that's not the right scaling to use here, right? It's a million to
one, not 30 to one. What if you delay the solving of death by one minute? I mean,
that's at least a few lives lost. What problem could you possibly come to a
superintelligence with that would take you that you could solve in a month by yourself,
but that would take it a full minute to solve? I don't know. Yeah. Right. There.
Oh, thanks for pulling my hypothetical out of the water with another hypothetical.
It's good to be conscious of that, though. I've been doing job interviews and they keep asking
the question of how do you handle collaboration or explain how you worked with a team before.
And I always like to point out that I try to be really aware of the time of my boss and my
supervisors. I think it's cool. Collaboration is great, but yeah, you do have to be really
strategic about how you use it because you don't want to be doing what you just mentioned,
taking more of the time of someone who has a lot on their plate already to benefit you if you
do have the time to work on it. I get annoyed with it happening the other way, too, though.
I think one of the reasons my boss works so much is because she spends way too much time on things
that don't matter. Long story short, a payment that went through the bank was four cents less
than what we had on our system. And so I was just like, hey, I'm just going to write this off.
Is that cool? She's like, no, research it, find out what happened, make sure it gets
transferred correctly. I'm like, it's four fucking cents. I'll give you the four cents.
Don't waste my time. My time is worth more than the half hour to an hour I would spend
fixing this four cent issue. Okay, maybe make more than eight cents an hour. Yes, I was really
annoyed that she wanted me to work on a four cent problem. But to still man her case, it might be
that, look, we need to know how this happened because next time it might not be four cents,
might be $400. Then we'd look into it. I know how it happens. Someone mistyped the key on the bank
sign. Someone saw the number put 0.00 at the end instead of 0.04. That's fair. And I do need to
point out because I think the other thing about being the employee who asks lots of questions
to superiors is that you're the annoying squeaky wheel that can't handle anything yourself. So
you need to be seen to be able to tackle things yourself and figure it out, even if it takes
you three times as long as it would if you ask somebody else. So my general strategy, except
in interviewing a little bit too, was basically so that they ask, how do you handle a problem
that you've never seen before if you work on a team with seniors? And I'm like, well, it depends
on how much progress I feel like I've made in 15 minutes or 20 minutes or something. If I haven't
made one step in 20 minutes, I'll shoot someone a message and be like, where do I get started?
And they'll respond to the link and then there I go. And then at least another 20 minutes or
something. But I can sit and burn a whole day and I've seen coworkers do this and drives me insane.
The approach problem is in the wrong way. And they could, and then they've, at the end of the
day, they've got to throw all that work away and backtrack or start from scratch. So I was like,
no, no, if you just asked somebody 20 minutes into your day, rather than after three days of
damage, right, then you could have saved us all this time. Right. And that saves the company,
you know, three days of wages for you too. Right. So I try to find a midline between those two
things. I guess that's where you have to develop the instinct of when it's worth asking. Yeah.
I just tend to always do it because I have this, uh, well, I have social anxiety. So I was coming
from a place of having never asked questions. So, uh, just updating more towards ask questions.
When you get stuck has helped me a lot. I still think I ask fewer questions than probably the
average employee. I've been trying to make a conscious effort to ask more questions too and to
be more eagerly ready to admit that I don't know something. It still feels awkward, but the more
I push through it, the easier it's getting. You know, even it's like, Hey, have you heard of this,
you know, book or this TV show or whatever, rather than me kind of him and ha I'm like,
Oh, I don't know, maybe because that leaves you some face of like being out of the loop. I'll say,
never heard of it. Tell me about it. And maybe it's, it's easier to get started with examples
like that. And when someone asks you during an interview, this happened at the last one I was
at, they were like, Hey, so how much to this do you know? I'm like, not that much, but I'm happy
to pick it up if I need to. And they're like, well, there's none of that here. You don't need it.
We're just checking. But, but if I had said, Oh, you know, I'm okay. Then it would have wasted
my time and there's by me pretending that I, that I do something, right? So sometimes it pays off
in a really funny way. Telling the truth is good. Maybe as a trick, they sometimes ask about systems
that don't actually exist. I saw one of those programming here programming Huber subreddit,
someone was like, how much do you know about the illuminate JavaScript library or something? And
the person she's like, I've never heard of it. They're like, good, we just made it up. You passed
the test. I had that in an interview recently. Really? It was not that not the illuminate,
but they actually just made up. They're like, how much do you know about this? Like, okay,
it was, I think it was you were asked to teach a class on and then they said something like
squid do or like it was some ridiculous goofy word. And then there's like, you don't know
very much about this. How would you handle that? And I explained how I would handle it. And then
after the question, I was like, if I can ask, is that a real thing? And they all laughed and they
said, no, we made it up for the interview. That's perfect. I'm curious, were you already like into
the rationalist scene when or or knew about it when you like started dropping out of the social
justice activism thing? Yes, but um, I don't know. Actually, yeah, rationality did have a lot to do
with it. I was going to say it didn't. I wasn't really that deep into the rationality community
when I started dropping out of social justice, but I started the drop very slowly. And then I got
back into rationality, and then I was able to articulate the problems that I had been having.
And oh, that's why, you know, that bothered me because I didn't look it up. I was just like
saying what other people had said, and I didn't go to the root of the problem. I didn't look up
any of the statistics or the scientific studies that have been done, which is what I should have
done. That's why that bothered me. So that was awesome. Kind of awesome. It was kind of hard.
Right. Having like killing sacred beliefs hurts physically, but it was the right thing to do.
How long ago was that? Four years. Around three to five years. It's been a process and it's,
you know, it's still a work in process. The second virtue is your relinquishment.
And it can be painful, depending on the belief it is, right?
I think it usually is painful because it just, something hurts about losing beliefs that you
had. It can be freeing too. Yeah, certainly beliefs that you care about anyway. I didn't
mean to interrupt, but like if someone corrects me about the population of Japan, I wouldn't feel
any like, other than the embarrassment having been wrong, then it's like, okay, whatever. But
and then I'm like, oh, good, now I know the right number. Some are easier practice cases,
but they don't really, I don't think they even practice cases. They don't translate really
well to an emotional loss. The loss of, you know, the emotional attachment to a belief like,
well, like losing your religion, because you'd lose your social circle, that like link to your
childhood, that like belief that you're not going to die. You're just going to go to heaven,
be in paradise forever. That all sucks. Yeah, a lot goes out the window. But then knowing you're not
going to go to hell is kind of cool too, maybe. Was that ever something you worried about?
No, the joves and misses don't have a hell. Oh smart. That you just die. Good call. But I mean,
I was scared of death from the very beginning. So wait, if you just die, what's the point?
You're dead. The same reason we don't like dying. No, no, no. But what's the point of being a jove
as a witness and proselytizing? Oh, if you're good, then you get to live forever in a flawless
paradise. Oh, if you're bad, you just die. Yeah. Okay, gotcha, gotcha. Okay, I was going to say,
like, if there's not a payoff even for the good one, then how do you, how do you market this?
Well, I mean, you could market it as have a good life now, which is kind of like what we do, right?
That's fair. Okay, yes. You can go to, you can go door to door and say, look, you know, like,
like selling your multi-level marketing scheme, if you really believe it, then, you know,
you're thinking of helping people. Yeah, okay. But they didn't actually have infinite reward.
So yeah. Having your consciousness erased sounds worse than hell to me.
I can, I can imagine states of being that are worse than being dead because, you know,
I was in one for a couple of years and, and I would rather not exist than, than to be in a hell.
Yeah. Yeah. If, if, if you imagine it's not just your like sensory input being attacked in hell,
but like also everything about your cognition, your emotions, everything about you being fucked
with, right? Like there was that Simpsons joke, I think it was Bart saying, you know, wouldn't you
just get used to the pain? Like, you know, easing into a hot bath. And it's like, sure, if you got
to keep your meat suit and everything worked like it does up here, right? But if you got really
creative, then things just could hurt way more than you, they could ever possibly hurt on earth.
And it freaks you out way more than it should because they're also screwing with that meter.
So yeah, things can get really messed up. You read about some of the medieval tortures that they,
they did. And, you know, there's a reason they called it going a medieval on someone's ass and
pulp fiction. I would much rather be dead than to go through some of those tortures.
I thought you were just talking about depression. Oh, I was literally talking about depression.
Not to get too personal, but I had a brush with suicide because it would have been better to be
dead than be in that continued pain. But that past and I got better and things are much better now.
But I would rather be dead than to be in that sort of permanent depression for all eternity, too.
I've never felt that I have had depression. I've never had suicidal depression. I've never felt
suicidal tendencies. And I've had to like talk friends down who had suicidal tendencies. I didn't
know what to tell them because I couldn't empathize with the feeling. Luckily, there's hotlines to
call. I was in a situation where I had to talk a friend down, I was able to consult somebody,
they sent me the number for a hotline and I talked to them and they gave me some advice.
Then the rest of the night worked out. So yeah, if you're ever in a situation,
Google Suicide Hotline and you'll find your local numbers. Should that ever happen?
Hopefully never. I actually also don't know what to tell people who are suicidal.
You call those numbers and you find out. Yeah. No, I'm serious. You delegate.
Well, why not? They're at least trained, right? If my toilet broke, I could sit there and try to
fix it or I could call somebody and they could say, do this and that would fix it, right? So
if it works for a broken toilet, it works for a person. That's all I'm saying.
That's just how physics works. Take a plunger the person's face and they'll be better.
I'm pretty sure that's in the sequences too. A lot of things are in the sequences.
Plunge your friends. That's what it should have been titled.
Should we move on to what's a bias again? That sounds good.
All right. The last one is what's a bias again? I will go ahead and read the first
quote that I pulled out of it. We want to get to the truth and we find various obstacles
getting in the way of our goal. These obstacles are not wholly dissimilar to each other.
For example, there are obstacles that have to do with not having enough computing power available
or information being expensive. It so happens that a large group of obstacles seem to have
a certain character in common to cluster in a region of obstacle to truth space.
And this cluster has been labeled biases. This one was also alluded to in the first
essay of the lens being reliably distorted. I've talked about biases a lot and I think we have
too. But I guess I wanted to say that this is more foreshadowing. There's a lot more in that
first post that covers kind of explicitly some things, but it also just hints that
here's a lot of the stuff we're going to be covering. This one sentence here,
we're going to talk about that for 80,000 words. I don't know how long these are. I think my numbers
are way off. He says, we seem to label as biases those obstacles to truth which are produced
not by the cost of information nor by limited computing power, but by the shape of our own
mental machinery. For example, the machinery to win arguments in adaptive political contexts.
Believing what others believe to get along socially. Our brains are doing something wrong
and after a lot of experimentation and or heavy thinking, someone identifies the problem in a
fashion that system two can comprehend. Then we call it a bias. And by the way, system two is
differentiating. System one is like your instinctive, intuitive.
Lizard brain.
Yeah, lizard brain. And system two is like the more slow, contemplative,
I can think about things instead of acting on instinct.
And your lizard brain can also do basic math and stuff. But it's also very easy to trick your
lizard brain with carefully worded math problems. But like two plus two, you don't have to sit there
and do the mental math. You kind of just know it. If I ask, but you can do...
The classic one is a baseball bat and a baseball together cost a dollar 10. If the baseball bat
costs $1 more than the baseball, how much does the baseball cost?
Right. So people, their immediate answer is a dime, because that's the difference.
But the real answer is what, a 15 cents?
Five cents.
Yeah. See?
Because since the bat is a dollar more, that the bat would be a dollar and five,
and that makes a dollar 10 all together.
I couldn't do mental math while making eye contact. That's why I never look at people when I talk to them.
Because you're always doing math while you're talking.
Even if we can do no better for knowing, it is still a failure that arises in an identifiable
fashion from a particular kind of a cognitive machinery.
Not from having too little machinery, but from the shape of the machinery itself.
Biasis are distinguished from errors that arise from damage to an individual human brain,
or from absorbed cultural mores. Biasis arrive from the machinery that is humanly universal.
That's another case where they mention later on that it's not just like necessarily a moral duty
to reduce biases in the world, because biases are bad and evil. It was more that you are trying to
instrumentally accomplish a goal, or because you're curious, you want to know what the truth is,
and these are things that you find in your way, so then you deal with them at that point.
But again, not all biases are evil. Loser brain uses heuristics.
Heuristics can be really good.
Often the obvious stereotypical thing that your brain jumps to is the correct thing.
Right. Well, heuristics are distinct from biases, right?
