breaking your fist is like thinking of really clever justifications for your weird religion or
something. Right. When you're talking about the fact that we do know some things about the brain,
I like that he specifically mentions that we have heuristics and biases programs and
experimental psychology, Bayesian systemization of probability theory, evolutionary psychology,
statistics and social psychology where there is a good deal of work done. So you can start to
think about how you think. Yeah. Well, building on that, there was the like tradition of introspection
is thousands of years old at least, right? Since people have been around and having free time,
they've been thinking about themselves and how they think, but it's in the last couple of centuries,
mostly in the last century that we've got a lot of really good tools to do that in a way that's
effective and well calibrated. And the systematized way of thinking and exploring that is the
scientific method is fairly new as well. Right. Yes. I mean, just the idea that you can ask a
question, test it and ask better questions afterwards is not something that we've been doing
since we've been thinking, right? Yeah. Or since the dawn of thought. Right. Yeah. There's this quote
near the end where it's the inner eye is not sightless, but it sees blurrily with systematic
distortions. We need then to apply the science to our intuitions to use the abstract knowledge to
correct our mental movements and augment our metacognitive skills. Yeah. That's basically
making the point that I clumsily made earlier, which is that we can use all the things that
Jess was mentioning that were in the post that we can do better than just think about our thinking.
We can actually get better at it. And we have the long list of tools. If here's all the things that
we can want to learn all these and learn how to apply them properly, there we go. You can start
thinking better. And he does mention that it's not, it's not something that's just automatically
easy. There's, I mean, there's a reason that he calls it an art. Some of the machinery is optimized
by the machinery means like the human universal machinery of our brains. Some of the machinery
is optimized for evolutionary selection pressures that run directly counter to our declared goals
in using it. Deliberately, we decide that we want to seek only the truth, but our brains have hard
wired support for rationalizing falsehoods. We can try to compensate for what we choose to regard
as flaws in the machinery, but we can't actually rewire the neural circuitry. So you're going to
be fighting against yourself a bit as well to do this. There's some good examples of the brain
being wired to do things that you expressly say and probably believe it's not wired to do. And
Robin Hansen spoke that we talked about the elephant in the brain, where you think you're
being honest or you're joining each charity or something for all the reasons that you think
you're doing it and telling people that you're doing it because it's nice and helpful, but really
there's a large signaling aspect to that too. So the press secretary is the metaphor that Hansen
uses to talk about your conscious self. Yeah, basically your conscious self, the voice that
gives reasons of your behavior to other people and to yourself. It's like, why did I just do that?
And you don't think of this base thing or you might not even, it's not even like you see it
and shirk away from it because it's not nice. It's just the- Yeah, you don't see it at all.
Exactly. That's the whole thing. You just, you don't see it. So it's not until you're called
upon to justify your behavior to yourself or to someone else, they even consult your press
secretary and your press secretary says, oh, you did it because you thought it would be nice.
And, you know, that's good enough. Do you read Slate Sarcotics? Yeah, bit.
Jess? I read all of it. Okay. So you're familiar with when Scott was exploring recently about
this general idea that movement may be the brain wanting to be in a certain position.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, the body like just fulfilling that want. I expect for my hand to be here
and sir, and you expect it hard enough and your body's like, okay, there it is.
That was the predictive processing model. Yeah, yeah. It was interesting. He also recently said,
you know what, I've been kind of confused about this. So I just started trying to think about
a movement as literally just me wanting something and my body fulfilling my desires.
And it is shocking how, how applicable this is. Like he said, I'll think about like when I'm eating,
just like, I want that burrito be in my mouth. And I'm not even paying attention, but all of a
sudden it's in my mouth, then I'm slowing it. And that's, that's kind of awesome how that happens.
And he's like, it's really put in perspective how much I'm just kind of the CEO being like,
I decided to want this to happen. And then all the automatic processes make it happen
without me really being a part of it. And I think that whole rider of the elephant thing
does the same kind of, it is the same kind of thing, right? You're just, you're doing your
thing, you want this to happen, and you aren't really paying attention to the actual deeper
motivations and mechanics that go on. So many sub steps involved in like very basic, like,
well, it's not very basic, but I was going to use the example of driving a car. But
I was driving over to your house and it's, you get on autopilot a lot of the time. I found myself
thinking about what I was going to say on this podcast. And suddenly I realized I'm like, oh,
I just lost 10 minutes. And I wasn't just like, it's not like I've driven here many times. I was
using Google Maps, looking at a map and looking at like, you know, my surroundings trying to figure
out which road was which, but it was all just in the background. And it's crazy. I mean, you're
operating a big piece of machinery at really high speeds too. But you just don't even like,
oh, this is no big deal. It's interesting. Yeah. Cause there's, there's a lot that goes on there.
I was just thinking of the example of like crossing the room to go get something that it's not until
you like observe a toddler learning to walk or like are super drunk that you realize how many
things are involved in getting like your feet under you, keeping your balance and getting,
you know, one foot after the other, lifting your knees, bending your ankles, all that stuff,
all that happens subconsciously, you know, there's, we'd burn a lot of fuel making all
those decisions, making every movement decision, right? But yeah, the driving example is interesting
because I remember thinking about this, like I remember learning to drive. It seemed like there
was so much to do. And now I sit there and there's, I can do it with literally one hand and one knee,
right? Like there's nothing that, I mean, I shouldn't, but I can. And there's so little
involved now, but it's overwhelming at first. It's just kind of funny thing to look back on.
I remember teaching my cousin to drive a few years ago, you know, just telling us like, you
know, it looks like a lot. This is going to be like nothing in, you know, a few months. You're
going to wonder why this seems so overwhelming. There's like three things you're doing here.
You know, stay in the lines. This is, you know, get familiar with how much weight to put on the
pedal. And here's how the, here's how to move the car with the wheel. Yeah. And learn all the
unofficial rules of the road. Yeah. Those come later. Which you also learn by experience.
I remember teaching someone how to ski and having a really hard time verbalizing what to do. I had
to stop and ski myself for a little bit and really pay attention to what I was doing. I'm like,
oh, okay, you kind of lift this foot and shift your weight like this. And then, you know, telling
them to do that. That's so many things. That's why it's hard to teach. I tried to teach a digital
art class for little kids. And I realized really quickly that you have to break everything down
into very, very, very tiny pieces. And I didn't think of that. I kind of immediately thought,
I'll teach them how to do a line art, and then I'll teach them how to put a layer under that
and put color on it. And that'll be really easy. And then I actually tried to trial the class and
realized that even like very, very simple, like use of the tools and like launching the program
was taking the majority of the class. So I guess that's the inferential distances issue.
Yeah. Which is another post that we will come to at some point. Yeah.
I'm just thinking of a similar example. It was like teaching a child to use a computer program,
but I started explaining to my mom over the phone how to drag a file from a computer to a
flash drive. And she lives 70 miles away. And she's like, next time you come by, you can do it.
And I was like, I'm really confident you can get this. Here's Google directions. You know how to
read it, click and read the Google directions. Like you can do this, but there's so much ground
to cover if somebody doesn't know what they're doing, that it's easy to forget all the steps involved.
Do you hear about the genius of Microsoft's early Windows games?
No. Because it's shipped with three games, Minesweeper, Solitaire, and I don't remember what the
other one was. Oh yeah, Solitaire taught like click and drag. Yeah. I never thought that at that
a time, but there was a reason for this. Yeah. No one knew how to really click and drag. No one
had used mice before and Solitaire just like clicked here, drag here. And you know, you learn
this skill really quickly through a game. Minesweeper teaches you how to do precision pointing
with the mouse in those very little tiny squares, you know? I was like, that's really neat.
Yeah, I remember reading something about that. And that was a really cool idea. Because yeah,
I mean, you got to think in the dawn of PCs. I remember in another example of, you know,
love mom, but your tech illiterate, showing how to use her TV that they bought a couple years ago.
And it's a smart TV with a remote that you can click down to apps and stuff. And I had to think
of how I'm going to explain to her, you know, like it has a little hovering halo around whatever
app is selected. And I'm like, okay, so that's where the control is. The direction that you
want it to go in is the direction you press on the map on the controller. But it took me a second
to think of how to phrase that. It's like telling somebody how to play a video game who doesn't
play video games or like who does only uses mouse and keyboard and they're using a controller.
And you're trying to remember without touching the remote, which one moves the camera, which one
moves the legs. Right. And I honestly can't quite remember, even though I play games most days now.
It's almost always the left joystick that moves the character and the right one that moves the
camera. Yeah, that checks out. But in my, you know, in the moment where you're trying to show
somebody, it's easy to forget. Yeah, like hotkeys are terrible. I use so many hotkeys. But when
people go, wow, how did you do that? I have to go over to a keyboard and place my fingers like,
okay, it's these keys. I don't know what they're called. They're these ones.
And we are, we have that a lot with the phrase inferential distances, right? That is something
we just have in our brains, but we haven't gotten to that post yet. That came from a
less wrong sequence post. Hopefully this will help people get on the same page with all these
mental tools. Yeah, just bringing it back. No, I agree. And it's one of those things that I
wonder, I often, I go back and forth and whether or not this should be like requisite reading for
the local group. And part of me thinks it should be because there's a lot of grounds to cover to have,
you know, again, if you have to teach everyone how to use a computer before you can learn to do,
you know, computer or graphic design or, or something, you're wasting, you're not wasting,
but you're spending so much time giving them caught up, right? But you don't have to like
read these whole things, you know, in order, a lot of it just gets picked up through, through
cultural osmosis. Like I'm sure a lot of people in our group, I know several people have never
had these sequences, but they know what inferential distance means. Totally. It's like you can be a
Christian your entire life, have never opened the Bible, but you know all about the Jesus
store, you know, and, and Moses and just you pick up things from, from what you, your people talk about.
I think your mind went there because of your upbringing, not because this is your replacement
Bible, right? No, no, literally because there's a lot of things people know that are supposedly
from this collection of words, but they've never read the words. Oh, sure. Yeah. I'm sorry,
just really quick, I was going to say that's why I'm a big fan of defining
jargon that comes up and I've been trying, we've tried to do throughout the whole show, which is
neck, you know, anytime we drop a new lingo, we, I try to define it so that way they're caught up
without having to go dig it out of the wiki. Yeah. Thanks for doing that, by the way. Yay.
I was going to say that's also a good reason to actually make it required reading because
my experience was that I never actually read the Bible until college, even though I was raised
Christian. And you were shocked at what you found. They read it in church and I like, you know,
it's own out because I was a little kid and I had a children's Bible my mom would read me that had
completely like wrong interpretations of a lot of these stories. And they don't read the whole
thing in church usually. Yeah, they read pieces, some quotes. Yeah. And then they talk about, well,
this relates to this, you know, current event in this really forced way. But when I read the
entire Bible cover to cover, I realized that I was missing a lot of the context. A lot of it was
really terrifying. But that was an enlightening experience because I became an atheist because
of it. Oh, cool. I'm going to say Mark Twain because this is where I heard it. But a lot of
quotes get attributed to people who didn't actually say them because they're more famous.
But I think it was Mark Twain who said that one of the best arguments for atheism is just reading
the Bible. Yep, can confirm. Before we move on to the next post, I did want to say that
when I reread this because I hadn't read this or really most of the sequences since the first
time I'd read them, aside from a few that I really like and reread sometimes. But when I reread this,
I saw that he explicitly referenced the lens that sees its own flaws, which is a post that
is comes up later. I don't even know how much later. But he talks about a flawed lens that can
see the flaws in itself, which, you know, normally you can't with you have a lens. But
as humans, we can have the ability to turn our thinking in on itself to examine it. And I was
like, oh, shit, he called forward to a post that he hasn't written yet and won't write for months.
But just the fact that it's a call forward in there is like he's apparently thought quite a bit
about what he's going to say. It's pretty cool. I noticed that too. I didn't realize that that was
a future post. But now that you mentioned that, that's awesome. Yeah, the lens that can see itself
and like he said, it makes the same. I think that's the whole point of it. Yeah. But it's just
the kind of longer version of this. Yeah. Before you move on, this is, you know, the martial art
of rationality and the structure of the post talks about, well, it directly compares the art
of rationality to like Taekwondo, for example. I really love that. And I think I might be mistaken.
I think there are rationality dojos that either like someone tried to implement or that do exist.
But they weren't around like 12 years ago. I'm sure it was like inspired by this.
Yeah. I think CIFAR is kind of like that. That sounds like a good real world example.
Yeah. But that's like a short intensive training period. It's not like...
Somewhere you could go every week. Yeah. I know that, was it the Ohio group that had a
rationality dojo thing for a while? Yeah. And there's a, Shelley here was trying to get those
going for a little while and I think to two or three and it didn't quite take off.
Yeah. Well, the problem is that someone needs to run it and it's a lot of work and no one
else was really willing to do that work. Yeah. I think that's it. Yeah. It doesn't pay very well
except you get a couple of high fives. Community organizing is really hard. Yeah.
I think we'll hit over and over throughout the whole segment is the analogy to martial arts,
which I really like too, that this first post, like I said, points out that it's hard to have a
public display of awesome rationality skills. The same way that you could see a martial artist,
you know, I remember when I went to like a McDojo as a kid, there was one of the
senseis could do a jump kick and hit a basketball hoop net. So like that's a demonstration of
looking at how good I am at martial arts or whatever somebody wants to do.
Just, I guess the idea that this isn't a thing that you can read about and then have,
like you can gain a piece of knowledge. Right. These are skills that need practice that you
can get better at, that there are degrees of skill, right? And that the more they become
unconscious habits, the better they usually are. Like if you can routinely find yourself, you know,
assigning probabilities to beliefs rather than just I believe this or I don't believe this
and thinking of things as probability distributions of how right about something you think you are,
that makes a big difference if you can do that automatically. I think I once made the point that
in the matrix, as we were talking about just before the microphones went on, when Neo has
the Kung Fu program downloaded into his brain and he says, I know Kung Fu. The reason he's so
amazed isn't because like now he knows how to, you know, make a fist and swing his arm. It's
because now he has these instincts that when someone throws a punch at him, his body just knows
what to do. When he wants to hurt someone, his body just does the thing, you know, that's what
you want when you master a physical martial art like that, that you, you just have this desire
and your body doesn't, you don't have to think about it like, like when you're playing rock band
or something, you know, or any instrument even, you don't want to think I'm hitting G key art,
