And one question is that,
I told you that the secret ingredient in our system
is that each of this embryo is rotating in a chiral fashion.
So how is it that the beating of this individual cilia
coordinate with one another
to make sure that all the embryos rotate
in the same handedness is an open question?
And of course, if you imagine that a cilia
is just beating in a single plane
and we want to generate a rotating machine
from a cilia that beats in a single plane,
then one way that you would do it
is that you can arrange it at a certain angle
with respect to the axis of rotation
and that would give you a rotation.
But that still doesn't answer a question of why is it
that how do they know that they need to slant
leftwards or rightwards to give you this chiral?
So I mean, this goes back to this big question
in development of biology of,
a left-right symmetry breaking in different type of organism.
And the other more physics inspired question
is that if you have this cilia being arranged
on a closed surface atmosphere,
it's known that you must have topological defects.
So does the placement of topological defects
actually give effect how chirality is the rise?
So, and in fact, this is exactly what we have shown
in a completely different study.
So now I don't have to switch gear a little bit.
And what I'm showing you is not an embryo,
it's an organoid.
So this is a pancreas organoid, a single epithelial layer.
I just want to give you a very,
let me just give you a punchline of the study.
What we found in this study is that if you get this,
form this a single epithelial like pancreas organoid,
they do show a spontaneous rotation.
But then these are cells that cross on extracellular matrix.
So there's no cilia involved.
This really just cell motility on an extracellular matrix.
And we found that they do a spontaneous rotation.
On top of that, if you looked at the cell shape
and measure the cell elongation axis,
this cell elongation actually appears to make a preferred angle
with expect to the axis of rotation.
They show either a 45 degrees slant
or a 135 degrees slant.
And if we screen your eye and look at this,
this cell orientation configuration
is essentially mirror image of one another.
Meaning to say spontaneously rotating organoids
actually show a chiral symmetry breaking.
And to cut a long story short,
what we are able to show is that using theory
with experimental evidence,
we found that it's really the topological defects
of the cell polarity that breaks this chiral symmetry.
Again, on a sphere,
you always get topological defects in the orientation.
And depending on whether you get an aster
or a star-like defects or a spiral-like defects
at the north and the south pole,
you get either one of the chiral symmetry.
So if you're interested, I'm happy to chat more offline.
And this work is actually on BioArchive now.
But coming back to this question of chirality
in our Starfish embryo,
I think there's a lot of interesting question
that you can ask in terms of cilia patterning,
how it couples to development
and how that leads to chiral rotation.
And just a side note is that one thing that I've been asking
around to see if people have tried to keep track
of whether embryos radiate clockwise and anticlockwise.
And it seems that most of them,
I mean, in fact, I haven't found an example
in which they rotate in a different direction.
So that suggests some evolutionary constraint or reason
that gives all this marine invertebrate embryos
the same handedness of rotation,
which I suspect has to do with the cilia,
which we know is definitely chiral.
So with that, the last bit of self-advertisement.
So I've just started my lab UCSD physics department.
And the lab will focus on two things.
One is this continuing on this road
of chiral active matter that I talk about today.
And the other part of the lab will be interested
in organoid morphogenesis,
where we use organoid to study collective cell behavior,
morphogenesis and tissue mechanics.
So if you guys have,
and of course the lab is actively recruiting.
So if you know of your friends
who might be interested in some of this work,
I would be very appreciate it very much
if you could spread the word.
And with that, I would like to thank all my collaborators
for this work, especially Alexander Mikker,
who now has a lab who is starting his own group
at University of Oxford.
And he's responsible for all the theory in the talk.
And yeah, that's all.
I thank you for your attention
and I'm happy to take any more questions.
Excellent, thanks so much.
That was really interesting.
I also have questions.
I have a couple of things, but anybody else?
Yeah, I had a question.
Cool talk.
So on the last part of what you were basically looking at
the overall corallia patterns on a sphere
and breaking off a symmetry on the sphere.
Could you hypothesize what would constitute,
like how would you have to break the symmetry
and any kind of mechanism?
So you would get something like a flow pattern,
like imagine like the Earth's midnight fields right
where like flow lines go from the North Pole
to the South Pole all around the sphere.
Could you get something like that based on your model?
Yeah, so one thing is that,
so there's sort of two parts to your question.
One is that whether the cells starts to flow.
And in our case, we are actually more of in a solid regime
meaning to say the cells do not exchange neighbor.
So if you talk about self-flow,
then the cells has to exchange neighbor.
No, sorry, I'd like to pull out,
I'd like to pull out of you off this.
Celia, I'm thinking about like,
Celia inducing movement of like flow of liquid around it.
So the flow, I mean like the flow induced by the Celia around.
Okay, so in this context of the organoid,
there's no Celia.
The Celia, okay, I should explain this a bit more.
What we are seeing here is an organoid
that grows in an extracellular matrix, the matri gel.
So the matri gel is the tissue
has a apical basal polarity, of course.
The basal side faces outwards
and crawls onto the extracellular matrix.
The apical side faces inwards
and inside is just a fluid field lumen.
And these cells do have Celia,
but the Celia is facing inwards
and the Celia is not mortal.
So the motility that we see here
is purely from the basal side.
So focal adhesion like cell crawling
on the extracellular matrix.
Okay.
And just in terms of the cell polarity itself,
same questions for the polarity,
like having the polarity arranged
kind of like these longitudinal lines.
Yeah, so for the cell polarity,
we suspect that there's probably no
this hydrodynamic-like interaction,
although you could hypothesize that maybe there is the,
of course they are crawling on an elastic material
and this elasticity could transmit
the long range information for cell polarity alignment.
But at least in our model,
we kept things simple and say
that this polarity only align with the neighbors.
And of course, I suspect if you add
this long range component to it,
you, I'll have to think about
whether there's any qualitatively
different kind of a mechanism
that would allow chirosymmetry.
Cool, thank you.
Can I ask a quick question?
So it seems like the sort of forming of the crystal
and the breakdown of the crystal are dependent on,
the merge of properties of the spendenomics
of the starfish embryos.
And so I'm wondering if you had a mixture
with hetero-chronic starfish,
so I have some of the older ones
when they're starting to break down
mixed with the younger ones,
what will happen there?
Or what if I have,
most of the embryos are kind of normal,
but then one or two of them are forming abnormally,
they're sort of malformed,
so they're gonna rotate incorrectly.
Would you expect those to kind of break the crystal
or get extruded or?
Right, so if you,
so for your first question,
what happens when you mix this old embryos
with young embryos?
Some of my previous lab mates,
they are trying exactly these experiments.
The answer is that you get sort of a mix of behavior,
