in the sense that, you know,
the old embryos is less stable,
the young embryos are more stable,
so they affect their own stability.
It looks like they like to face separate,
meaning to say the old ones like to go with the old ones,
and the young ones like to stick to the young ones.
But there is no,
I mean, so far it's not clear yet.
It becomes a bit more uncontrolled
and it's not clear how they affect the properties,
except to say that they are roughly an average
of what you would expect from a purely old
and purely young crystal.
But your questions of what happens when you have
a few embryos that rotate in a different direction,
that's definitely, that definitely happens,
and what we see, if you have enough of them,
these systems become no longer chiral
and you lose this elasticity behavior.
So basically, yeah.
Cool, thank you.
I have the similar question as Patrick.
I don't know if you're familiar with linear
and particle linear.
It's a simulated system that each particle
have attraction power and attraction power
when they are having certain distance.
So yeah, so I saw some experiments show that
if you put different kind of particle linear
or called linear particle together,
they will form a cell, I mean, an emergent scale cell.
So I don't know if you observe similar thing,
like you saw these crystals having a behavior
like a single cell.
So I'm not familiar with the simulation platform,
but what kind of cell do they form?
As in what kind of properties do they have?
I mean, it's like the collection of these cells,
collection of these particles behave like a single cell.
They move, they translate in this space.
Right, so the translation part is sort of what I show you
in this video towards the end
that we do sometimes see that when you get these clusters,
sometimes they rotate, sometimes they translate
and sometimes they rotate and translate.
And that's something that we are still looking into.
And I suspect it has, it's probably quite geometry dependent
that depending on the history of how the cluster
is being assembled, then you might get different of geometry
and that actually dictates a lot what happens next
to that cluster, but we haven't looked too much into it yet.
Okay, thank you.
Two quick things.
One is, have you ever looked at any of the,
let's say robustness properties?
Like if you've got the phenomena that you showed today,
you try to interfere with it right manually,
you go in and you sort of do anything.
To what extent is it able to come back
from those kind of perturbations back into the shape
that it had, anything like that?
Yeah, so it depends on what kind of perturbation that you do.
So what we have done was that if you completely disassemble it,
so you know, you start a well completely
so that these embryos fall apart,
then actually very quickly they will spontaneously reform
again, meaning to say,
because the embryos will again soon to the surface,
it's almost like you're resetting the system
and then they start making new crystals.
If it is a more gentle kind of perturbation,
like for example, if I take a pipette tip
and sort of draw a line and break the crystal apart,
then actually they do have quite,
they're able to heal quite well,
meaning to say very quickly they come back together
and then sort of reorganize a little bit
but then reform the crystal.
So I would say they are, in that sense,
they are quite robust.
And on top of that, I think they are more robust
and say crystals, you know, if you have passive crystals
and you break them apart and you try to stitch them together,
typically you will have dislocation lines near the boundary.
But then because these embryos are rotating,
I think it gives them an additional degrees of freedom
to fall back into their low energy barrier.
So I think they heal better in that sense.
Cool, okay.
And another thing, if you sort of take a step back
and think about in the system,
you have some initial properties
that each of the elements have.
And then there's this collective behavior
that you've shown us today.
What do you think is the evolvability of this system?
If you were gonna either try to design
for specific system level outcomes
or you try to evolve,
so basically some kind of evolutionary search
for some specific large-scale properties,
how rough do you think that space is?
Do you think that would be an easy transition to make, right?
So design the low-level properties
to get a particular system level outcome?
Or do you think it's a super rugged space
that's gonna be hard to engineer through?
Right, so I would have to think about
how rugged this landscape would look like.
But then in terms of the parameters that you can tune
to get different system level outcome,
I would say there's a lot of parameters that you can tune.
So for example, the morphology, the hydrodynamics are,
essentially it's almost like,
if you can change the morphology,
then you change the interaction strengths with it.
And if you can imagine designing more complex shapes,
then you can also sort of program
in what kind of cluster geometry that you would like,
for example.
And this is sort of what we wanted,
or the hope is that what we wanted to do with this
platinum race because then we have different,
we were able to poke each embryo at a time
to see how that affect things.
And the other thing is that,
then we can mix different species together,
which has different morphology and hydrodynamic flow
of you to see how different things would do.
But at this point, it's hard for me to predict
how rugged this is going to be.
Yeah.
Got you, okay.
Okay, well, thank you so much.
Yeah, that was really cool.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, thanks.
See you, everybody.
Thanks, have a good day.
