and caused great need from the spring constants.
And we found that the values differ by quite a bit,
but then at least the signs are correct.
And what it means is that given that the cycles that we see
are counterclockwise, it means that the material is actually
doing work on the environment, which is consistent with what
we would expect.
So in this second part of the talk, what we found
was that we are able to see signatures of elasticity
in our material.
And this is consistent with what you would expect
if you have chiral interactions between the embryo.
So in the last part of our work, we
wanted to address this question of the spontaneous dissolution
of our crystal.
So if you look at this crystal information,
you see that towards the dissolution process,
the embryos are actually fluctuating more and more.
And there is actually more disorder in the system.
One way that we can quantify this disorder
is that we can calculate this so-called local bond
orientational order parameter.
This is the mathematical definition of it.
But then the intuitive explanation
is that this size 6 parameter has two components.
There is the real part of it, the magnitude and the phase.
So the magnitude of size 6 actually
tells you how hexagonal like locally an atom is.
So if you are a perfect hexagon, then everything
would be colored white.
But then as you deviate more and more
from this hexagon picture, you become more and more black
in this color code.
And then the phase of size 6 indicates
the orientation of this hexagonal order.
So essentially, the color tells you
what is the relative angle of this local hexagonal order
with respect to the x-axis.
So what we found was that if you just
look at this magnitude of the size 6, which
quantifies local hexagonal order,
initially the crystals are relatively white,
meaning to say they have a very high hexagonal order.
But then towards the end, you see
that they get more and more of these hot spots
before the crystals dissolve away,
meaning to say this order develops as the crystal dissolves.
And if you look at this phase of the size 6, which
is the orientation, initially you
see that the crystals is largely just blue or meaning
to say all the crystal is a single piece of crystal.
They have the crystal axis along some direction.
But then as the crystal dissolves,
you see more and more dispatches of color,
meaning to say the crystal is breaking into small pieces.
There's more green boundaries.
And this is because you get more disorder in the system.
We can be more quantitative with that
by plotting this code called a probability time
timeograph.
So this timeograph, the vertical axis
is the magnitude of size 6.
So remember, 1 indicates that the crystal is highly ordered.
0 means that the crystal is completely disordered.
The x-axis is a time axis.
The crystal goes from 0 hours to 36 plus hours.
And each of this vertical slice gives you
the probability distribution of this magnitude of size 6.
So initially, when the crystals is highly ordered,
you see that the distribution is highly
picked near 1, meaning to say the crystal is highly ordered.
But then as time goes by, you see this order
develops towards the end, whereby you get a very long flat 2.
So usually, again, if we compare this to an equilibrium
system, what you get is that you get this kind of disorder
to develop if you crank up some physical parameter.
For example, if you increase the temperature as the ice is
dissolving, you get more and more disorder
in your crystalline structure.
But what is remarkable in our system
is that we are not changing any physical norm.
We are not changing temperature, norm viscosity.
What we are doing is that we are just letting the system run.
I'll explain this plot in a moment.
And so what really is happening here
is that, of course, we have a living system.
So over the course of 30 hours, these embryos
are not just sitting there at the individual level.
They are also developing and changing
both their morphology as well as their flow field.
And this actually introduces additional noise, effectively
introduce additional noise into the system,
which is driving this order-disorder transition.
So essentially, what we have is that we
have symmetry breaking at a particle level
that leads to this order-disorder transition
at the crystalline level.
And we can quantify this a bit further through two metrics.
One is that we can quantify the shape inisotropy.
These are three snapshots of the crystal, again,
when looking from the top.
And what you will see is that initially, at about 10 hours
time point, the embryos look roughly circular,
if you view from the top.
But then they become increasingly elliptical
because the embryos developing and they're
breaking more and more symmetry at a single embryo level.
And in addition to that, because of this shape asymmetry
at the embryo level, the embryo at the boundary
becomes actually less and less stable.
So for example, if you look at this 10-hour time point,
you can see that this embryos at the boundary
actually are really standing almost vertically.
But then towards the end, near the 33 hours,
a lot of the embryos are actually toppling sideways.
So you are able to see the side view of these embryos.
And then they started swimming away,
and that's what's leading the crystal to dissolve.
So basically, what we have here is that essentially,
this dissolution process is really
driven by the development of this embryo
and not by any physical parameter.
So that's basically what we have shown in our paper.
But then of course, as you can see, it's a very rich system.
And actually, there are many things
that we can do with it, including many open question.
One of which is that I show you that there's
this vibrational wave that propagates through the crystal.
But then the question is, why is it that we see it sometimes?
But then why do we not see it at other times?
And so one thing that we did notice
was that this wave dynamics seems to have something
to do with the topological defects in our crystal.
So if you look at this video on the right here,
the defects in the 6-4 crystals basically,
so usually in a 2D isotropic crystal,
each atom will have a 6-neighbor arranged hexagonally.
But when you get defects, it means that instead of 6
neighbors, you get either 5 or 7 neighbors.
I mean, you can get 8 or 9, but then those are very atypical.
What we found was that if we count the number of such defects,
we see that and then we plot it as a function of time.
So that is a blue curve.
And then we can quantify the degree of vibration
that we see as the magnitude of this cycling.
And that is the yellow plot that I'm showing right here.
And what you see is that there's this interesting correlation
between this optic, a small optic in the cycling magnitude
with this optic in the number of defects,
as well as when we get this very pronounced cycling
behavior that corresponds slightly afterwards,
after when we have this establishment of defects
in the crystal, suggesting that this defect somehow
is providing the kicking that is needed to allow the wave
to propagate.
And that's something that we are actively investigating.
Another question that we get a lot when we present this work
is whether does this self-assembly behavior
have any biological relevance?
So I mean, the short answer to that is that we don't know.
Because if we want to investigate any biological function,
then it would mean that we have to go out to the open ocean
during when the embryos are developing
and try to look for this millimeter-sized crystal
in an open ocean, which is not very visible.
But we took another route and asked
if the salvage embryo does this, does
other species of marine invertebrate did it as well.
So we check.
So this is the species of salvage
we work with, Pateria minata.
This is a west coast species.
Asteria for Bessie is an east coast species.
This is, I think, the purple sea urchin, of course,
is a very fluid.
It's an Echinoderm species, which
is a close relative of the starfish.
And then we also look at this platinumis, which
is a sea annulet.
So it's actually in the worm family,
but then it's also marine life.
So it's an outgroup in our comparisons.
And in all the species that we have checked,
they all have this ability at some point
during their early development, whereby
they can go to the air-water interface
and spontaneously form this crystalline behavior.
So then it begs the question of, if true, this different.
So I guess what we can say based on this data
is that it appears that many marine invertebrate species
can do it, and whether this is purely
or epiphenomenal from their hydrodynamics,
or whether they really do serve some function as something
to think about.
But from a physics perspective, it
does opens up another door of opportunity,
because now we have this different type of atoms
that we can play with and build different kind of living
chirocrystals and see how the different shape
and hydrodynamic properties can lead
