Please see my screen, all right.
OK, yeah.
So thanks.
First, I would like to thank Michael for inviting me here
today.
And for this group meeting, I thought
I'll share with you my work on the odd dynamics of living
Cairo crystal.
And seeing, I think, most part of what I'm going to present to you
has been published.
I think maybe it is more fruitful if you can ask questions.
So please feel free to interrupt along the way
for any questions that you might have.
So before I begin, I thought maybe I
would first put this work in the larger context of what
I'm interested in.
So broadly speaking, what I'm interested in
is trying to understand biological matter
as a kind of active matter.
And what I mean by that is that these are systems
where you get these constituent particles that consume energy,
which break details balance at the microscopic level.
And this typically will lead to spontaneous organization
of emergent structures and novel material properties
that you don't typically get in equilibrium materials.
And so in particular, in the past decades or so,
a lot of work has been done to try
to understand how we can describe and characterize
some kind of biological system using polar and pneumatic
order.
And the most prominent example is probably
how cells in tissues can actually behave like liquid crystals.
And using this kind of framework,
people are able to understand how spontaneous flows can arise
in cells and tissues, especially in the context
of morphogenesis.
In the context of bacterial suspensions,
people have shown that if you push the system hard enough
in terms of how active they are, you can actually
get into a regime of active turbulence
with some interesting parallels with what
people have known for many, many decades
in fluid dynamics turbulence.
And more recently, there's a lot of interest
in trying to understand how topological defects in this
polar or pneumatic fields in tissues, for example,
in this work from Keeneret-Karrens group, HYDRA,
they show that actually defects in this polar or pneumatic field
actually correspond to biologically significant
organization centers.
And so this is really a very active area of research.
But for today, I wanted to focus on another kind of order
that can arise in biology, and that is chirality.
And of course, as we know, chirality
is a very common features that we see around us.
So the most prominent example is probably
our left hand and right hand.
Those are chiral because you cannot superimpose them
by just purely rotation or translation.
You have to have a mirror before you can superimpose them
on themselves.
And this gives it a very interesting physical properties
that when you get collective behavior in self-organization
of many, many of such particles, you
get a new type of material properties.
And so this chirality in synthetic or biological active
matter has recently attracted a lot of attention.
And one example here that I'm going to show you
is the work from William Irvine's group at Chicago.
And what they have here is that they have a spinning colloidal
magnet.
So basically, they have this tiny colloidal magnet
that put that they assemble thousands and thousands of them.
And then they apply a magnetic field across it.
And because of the setup, this colloidal particle actually
all started spinning in the same direction.
And what they found was that using this setup,
they can assemble this chiral fluid,
whereby you get a lot of very non-trivial,
non-equilibrium physical properties,
including topological edge effects, as well as
odd viscosity, which I will go into more details in a moment.
And this type of behavior really comes
from the fact of each of these individual particle
breaks chirality at the particle level.
And this type of property has also
been recently reported in a biological system.
So a group in Japan, Yamaguchi, and all,
they show that if you culture this neuroprogenitor cells
in micro-pattern devices, they start showing this rotation
behavior.
And at the boundary, you get chiral H-flows,
which are signatures of chiral fluid.
So by now, there has been quite a few examples
of how systems can behave as chiral fluid.
And in our project, we wanted to address this question
in the context of a solid and ask whether we can find
an odd response in biological active solid material.
So to do that, we are going to use our favorite model
organism, which is the starfish embryo.
So here is a picture of a starfish embryo
at about 48 hours post fertilization.
So there are about 200 microns in diameter.
So can people see my cursor?
OK.
Yes.
OK, so there are about 200 microns in diameter
and 300 microns in length.
And on their surface, they are covered
with this carpet of cilia, as with many marine invertebrates
larva.
And of course, the cilias will beat
and they start generating this hydrodynamic flows, which
will allow them to swim in water.
And what we found by accident, actually,
was that if you culture enough of this embryo
in, let's say, a six well plate, what happens
is that sometimes some of these embryos
will swim towards the water-air interface.
And because of the hydrodynamic interactions
with the water-air interface, they
will actually form a stable bound states
so that they will remain perpendicular to the air
water interface stably.
And then again, because of the hydrodynamic interactions,
they will start attracting more and more embryos
to itself.
And because of these basic interactions, what you get
is that you get this spontaneous self-organization
of thousands and thousands of starfish embryos.
They will swim towards the surface.
They will start attracting one another.
And then they will self-assemble into these very regular
crystalline structures.
So I'm just going to let the video play one or twice
and point out a few things about this.
So one thing is that we're talking about millimeter-sized
crystals, so you can actually see this by eye.
The time scale is of the older tens of hours.
So this crystal, actually, from the time it starts to assemble
to its complete disassembly took about 30-plus hours.
And as you can see, this crystal actually
has very clear six-fold symmetry.
This is a very beautiful hexagonal symmetry.
It has all the features of what you would expect
from a 2D isotropic crystals where you get five-fold and seven-fold
defects.
You can get line of disclinations and et cetera.
And of course, the most fascinating aspect about this system
is that each of these embryos actually
rotate in a chiral manner, meaning
to say, if you look from the top of this video,
all of them are actually rotating in a clockwise direction.
So that's where the chiral symmetry breaking comes in,
that all of this particle rotate in the same way they are chiral.
And because of that, we expect the crystal
to actually show elasticity that is distinct from what you
expect from just a plain old isotropic 2D crystal.
So there's just a lot that you can ask and do with the system.
But initially, we thought we just
wanted to focus on three questions.
The first one is, how does this crystal self-assemble?
What are the kind of emergent dynamics
that you get from this chirally interacting particle?
And what is driving this dissolution process of the crystal?
So to address these questions of self-assembly,
the first thing we thought was that it must come from a hydrodynamics
because the embryos are firmly embedded in this water.
So to measure the flow field around the embryo,
what we do is this very standard PIB experiments.
We just put beads around the embryos.
I hope the video is clear enough that you can see
that these beads are clearly moving towards the embryo.
And because the water is incompressible,
this flow field, if the water gets
expelled down towards the bulk, like this blue arrow
that we are showing right here.
But near the top of the air-water interface,
you get a net inflow of particles.
And if we make this measure quantitative, what we found
is that this can be easily described
by what is called a stock-slip flow.
Essentially, it's the flow that is generated
by a point force in a fluid.
And you can see that we get very nice agreement
between theory experiments.
And of course, when we talk about self-assembly,
we are talking about the interactions
between pairs of embryos.
And this is where things start to become interesting.
So if you put just two embryos in the water
and just look at how they interact,
the first thing you notice is that, of course,
each of these embryos, again, are spinning clockwise
from our point of view.
There's a net inflow of fluid flow.
But on top of that, because of the rotation,
they also started to show this orbital motion.
It's almost like two planets spinning around one another.
And to first order, there are actually two types
