of interactions that is going on.
One is that there's a transverse force interaction,
which allows each of these embryos
to start rolling on one another, essentially.
The other kind of effect is actually,
you can think of it as a kind of a friction effect,
because these two embryos are spinning in the same direction.
At the point of contact,
they are actually moving in the opposite direction.
So this embryo, at this point, they are spinning this way,
but at this point, they're spinning that way.
And because of that, they start to slow down one another
through a non-respirical torque exchange.
And from that, we are able to, essentially,
experimentally, again, experimentally,
measure this flow field and show that it fits well
into this description where you can,
with a point force and a point torque,
you can explain the flow field that we observe experimentally.
So through that, we come out with a very minimal model
for this chirocrystal formation.
So, essentially, we assume that each of these
starfish embryos is a 2D disk.
And in this 2D disk, the equation of motion,
essentially involves only three type of forces.
One is that you get this Stokeslet attraction
that is coming from the hydrodynamic interaction.
You get a short-range repulsion,
because the embryos, once they get close enough,
they cannot get closer anymore.
And then you get this force from chiral interaction,
which is essentially this transverse force interaction
that I was telling you about earlier.
And this transverse force interaction
or this orbital motion around one another
will depend on their rotation frequency omega here.
To close this model, we have the equation
for the individual rotation speed of the embryo.
And this equation essentially says that the embryo likes
to rotate in some fixed free rotation speed,
but then you need to subtract away a net reduction
in the torque that is dependent again
on the embryo and its neighbor.
So with this minimal model,
what my collaborator, a theory collaborator,
Alex has been able to do was that he's able
to recapitulate qualitatively the feature
that we see in experiments.
You start getting this small clusters
that fuse together to form this big, big chiral crystals.
And on top of that, we are able to quantitatively match
what we measure in experiments
in terms of embryos spinning frequency,
as well as the large cluster rotation frequency
as a function of a number of embryos.
So that's all, that's sort of where we are
in terms of trying to understand
how this self-assembly process happens.
And the next thing we wanted to understand
is whether we get any emergent dynamics
from the chiral interaction.
So here, I have to bring you through a little bit
of a coarse-grained continuum elasticity theory.
So usually, typical, when we talk about an elastic material
and we talk about an elasticity of material,
we usually have two modulus to describe them,
how they are so-called the shear modulus
and the compression modulus,
meaning to say, if I piece a material, if I squeeze it,
how hard do I need to squeeze to produce some strain
that is compression modulus?
The other modulus is the shear modulus.
It characterizes how hard I need to shear the material
before it actually goes out of shape.
But, and that typically, so here the compression modulus
and the shear modulus, at the microscopic level,
this is because of the longitudinal force
between the atoms.
So you have atoms that attract and repel each other.
That, how strong that interaction is,
is roughly proportional.
Well, in linear elasticity theory,
it's roughly proportional to your compression modulus
and your shear modulus.
But in our material, it is more interesting
because we have, on top of this longitudinal interaction,
we have transverse interaction.
And that should, in theory, give rise
to two more additional elasticity moduli.
And this has been worked out, in theory,
by Scheibner and All in this paper right here.
And what it means is that this type of transverse interaction
should give rise to an odd compression modulus
and an odd shear modulus.
So the odd compression modulus essentially
described this properly whereby, if I squeeze the material
from the boundary, this material will actually
show a net torque in the middle, which
is something that is very non-intuitive
because it doesn't happen usually
in our typical material.
And odd shear modulus is essentially
described this material property whereby,
if I shear this material, let's say, in the vertical direction,
the response of the material is that it
gets sheared in 45 degrees.
Again, the response of the material
is rotated somehow by this chiral interactions
in the particle level.
So if you put this all, what I described to you
in this matrix form, what it means
is that in a typical isotropic passive solid,
we get two modulus, which is the bulk modulus
and the shear modulus, right here.
But if you have a chiral material,
you get two additional modulus, which
is a and k0, that appears at the off-diagonal terms.
And this kind of material properties
you can only get if you have energy injection
into the system, meaning to say your solid is out
of equilibrium.
Because once you have this kind of moduli in the off-diagonal,
it means that you can extract energy from the system.
And one thing that is predicted in this study right here
is that if you have this type of material,
you should be able to get strain cycles from the material.
And this is exactly what we are able to observe
in our experiments.
So what we found is that through many, many iterations
of the experiments, sometimes we see
this spontaneous vibrational mode in our living chiral crystal.
So I hope this video plays, but let me just show you.
So essentially, at about three hours' time point,
you can see, even by eye, is that there
is this very pronounced jiggling behavior in the crystal.
So right about now, you should be
able to see this vibration that propagates through the crystal.
And to sort of first quantify that, what we did
was that we do a particle tracking of each of this embryo.
So each of the circle right here represents a single embryo.
We are able to track their displacement,
so that is what this little black arrow is showing.
And the color code of these circles
is essentially the angle at which the instantaneous displacement
vector is showing with respect to the x-axis.
And so once we have done that analysis,
what we found is that you can very clearly
see that the displacement of each of these embryos
show this very cyclic behavior, meaning
to say you get this chiral active wave that
is propagating through the crystal.
And if you look at the phase, the propagation also
shows some cyclic behavior.
If we look at a single embryo and just track this displacement,
you can see that the periodicity of this displacement
is of the order 240 seconds.
So remember that these are embryos that
is embedded in a fluid.
So meaning to say, the embryos are definitely
in an overdamped regime.
So meaning to say, this kind of excitation
cannot be thermal in nature and must come
from the non-equilibrium dynamics.
And as I've mentioned previously,
once you have a material that has odd modulus,
in principle, you should be able to get strain cycles
from the material that is where we can extract energy from it.
And indeed, if we did the analysis for this curl
and divergence, as well as shear 1 and shear 2,
we see this counterclockwise cycle in the strain space,
which is very reminiscent of what the theory predicts.
And so now that we have seen signatures of odd elasticity
in our material, the next thing that we want to ask
is whether we can actually infer what the value of this odd
can we measure the odd elastic moduli.
So usually, when we want to measure elastic modulus
from materials, we apply a stress, we measure the strain,
and then we find out how they are correlated.
In our system, because it's rotating
and is in this 6-well, 24-well plate structure,
it's a little bit hard to perform the experiments.
So in state, we try to infer these odd modulus
from the defect strain field.
So the math is a bit long and technical,
but I just want to explain to you the idea behind it.
And basically, the idea is as follows.
If you have a solid and the solid has a topological defect,
this defect will induce a displacement, a strain
field around the defect.
And depending on how the strain field looks like,
we can actually infer whether the material is just
isotropic solid or whether there's a chiral component to it.
And the theory behind it has been worked out
in this PRL paper that was published in 2021.
To cut a very long story short, what we are able to do here
is that we are able to find the relative A and K0 modulus
from this fit by going through this fitting procedure.
And we found that both of the numbers are positive.
And this is consistent with what we would get
if we took our model from the hydrodynamic modeling earlier
