to different kind of material properties.
And one thing that I'm interested in doing in my new lab at UCSD
is that we are going to use a platinum race
to build a chirocrystal.
And the exciting part about the platinum race
is that they are actually phototactic.
So this is a sort of a schematic of this platinum race
embryo through the first 24 to 30 hours.
Unlike starfish, they have, instead of a cupboard of cilia,
they actually have a ciliary band near their equator.
And around beginning at about 24 hours,
they start developing these eye spots at the tip,
well, at the anterior side of their embryo.
And this light spot actually allows phototactic behavior.
So the hope is that we can somehow
use light to actually manipulate rotation
rate of the swimming behavior of this individual embryos
and maybe create patterns on this crystal.
And first thing that we check is whether they do form,
whether they form this crystalline structure.
And what we found is that they do,
although as this video, you can clearly see in this video,
the crystal is not as stable as what we see
in starfish species, but we suspect that we can probably
tune this by changing maybe the viscosity
or the buoyancy of the embryo.
And when we measure the flow field around each of this embryo,
you can see that the first order,
well, this is very preliminary data,
but then to first order, you can see that they do show
this dipole-like flow field that is very similar to starfish.
Could I ask a quick question?
Yes.
This is really cool.
Thank you.
Do you see a difference between the way they move
between like the 13 hour and 24 hour like that?
Formations like when the eye spot appears or before?
Oh, so this is really very early work.
The window we're still trying to pin down,
where is the window where they form a crystal most robustly?
But one thing that we can say is that
it's not as robust as the starfish.
So the starfish, you know, you can,
I showed you this 30 hour crystal, you know,
but at any point, if you disrupt the crystal,
they will reform again very easily.
But then in the case of the platinum race,
it seems that they are more sensitive.
There's only one window, a very,
a tiny window where you can form this crystal.
In this particular video is about 24 hours.
So it is at about the time point
in which the eye spot has formed.
But I suspect the ability to form crystal has more to do
with the hydrodynamics rather than the eye spot.
But it is also true that, you know,
if they are phototactic, then it means
that we have to be a lot more careful
about the light that we have in the lab
because that would affect their behavior
in terms would affect their crystal.
So it's something that we are working on.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So that's, I think, one very interesting,
exciting direction that we can take by, you know,
going to this toolbox that evolution has given us
and look at different kind of marine species.
But then, of course, we also,
we are also interested in a lot of the physics question.
And one of which is the most, you know,
a stable of statistical mechanics,
which is that if you have a material,
they typically go through phase transitions.
In equilibrium type system, if you tune the temperature,
you can get a material to go from solid to liquid to gas.
In our embryo system, the starfish embryo system,
we think that what the process,
the dissolution process that we're seeing
is actually more a sublimation process
than a fluidization process.
And the reason why I say this is because it is true
that the crystal is getting more disorganized in the bulk.
But then the reason why the crystal is dissolving
is because the embryos are leaving from the boundary.
So it's almost like it's evaporating from the boundary
before our material completely fluidized.
So one thing that we're hoping to do
is that we are actually, we are able to keep the embryo
still at the air water interface,
but then completely fluidized,
meaning to say they're still maintain themselves
at the air water interface,
but able to exchange neighbor completely and freely flow around.
And what happens is that then you can ask what happens,
what happens when this phase transition happens.
And in 2D crystal melting theory,
there's this idea that, no, not idea,
there's this, people have shown that you are able
to get this hexatic phase.
And what I mean by that is that you get into this phase
where you break translational order,
but then you still have a long range of orientational order.
And we wanted to ask whether that still happens in a system
where you have individual atom
that is rotating in a chiral fashion.
And of course, as with all physicists,
what we are interested is the phase diagram,
except that now we have a non-equilibrium phase diagram
where our axis is something like developmental time
or buoyancy on viscosity and ask where,
whether we can get solid liquid or gas
in our chiral crystal and what happens at the bottom.
The other interesting thing that we can do
is to look at the cluster dynamics.
So, so far, if you notice,
the experiments that I've shown you
show you a single crystal in the center of the camera.
And that is because we are using a small well
where you get this steep surface curvature
which creates a potential and push all the embryo
to the center of the well,
and you get only a single crystal at the end.
But if you use a bigger well,
so it basically means that instead of doing an experiments
in a 24 well plate, you do it in a six well plate,
you get a much flatter surface curvature
and what you get is something in this video right here.
So you still, you get nucleation of multiple clusters,
but then because you no longer have this steep potential,
these clusters can remain by themselves.
They don't all nucleate into a single crystal,
but then you see that there's a lot more cluster dynamics
that are available.
So let me let the video loop once more.
You see that now you have this multiple cluster,
some of that rotate, some of them translate.
Some of them has this very interesting,
very long type of structure
rather than clustering into a more isotropic structure.
They merge, they separate,
and then towards the end of the video,
you will see this very pronounced jiggling behavior again.
So right now, and that jiggling behavior
is exactly the wave propagation that I was referring to.
So I think by simply changing the geometry
of our experimental system,
we can ask many more interesting questions like,
why is it that some cluster rotate,
some translate and some both rotate and translate?
What happens during this merger and separation events?
And one thing that you might have noticed
is that there's this very dynamic reorganization process.
And indeed, if you take a pipette tip
and try to disturb the crystal,
they quickly fold back onto themselves
and have this sort of self-healing properties.
And this is one way that you can, yeah, go ahead.
Yeah, just a quick question.
So if these things are living in the ocean,
then there's gonna be waves.
So have you tried putting it basically a wave pool?
Ah, okay, so that's a good point.
So what we found was that these are not very stable,
meaning to say, if you just jiggle the well,
this crystals break apart quite easily.
Okay.
Yeah.
Right, as I was saying,
this idea of self-healing properties,
it's interesting because if you just think about it,
if you have a bunch of particles
that are just attracting and repelling from one another,
then if you break it,
then the only way it can come back
is to start attracting one another.
But then right now, what we have is that a set of particles
that can attract one another
and on top of that, they can roll on one another.
And that gives us an additional ability
whereby if you form along crystals,
it is able to fold back onto itself.
So there's an additional degree of freedom
that allows these crystals to add one more dimension
to their dynamics.
And this is sort of where this idea of cluster dynamic
and reorganization is going.
And maybe one last thing that I want to mention is that,
of course, so far, all that I've shown you
is at the macroscopic crystalline level.
There are also interesting questions to ask
at what happens at a single embryo level.
So I've shown you earlier that on the surface of this embryo,
you have this ciliary structure and in this video,
I mean, people have said many decades
trying to study more of cilia and biophysics of cilia.
But I think perhaps maybe not as much is known
about how this cilia arranged themselves
in a collective context.
