That's right.
The anthropic argument is more of like a more theology trying to like kind of
shoehorn its way into a science like argument, right?
And how do we feel about the answer that if life, if conditions for life were impossible,
there wouldn't be life here asking these questions.
So that's more of like addressing the principle than it is like.
So the argument, I just as long as we're bifurcating those things,
I feel like the proper response to the anthropic argument for something
intelligent designing the universe or something is like, this is not that well
designed for people.
Almost all of the universe is super bad for us.
Right.
Hence the universe isn't designed for us.
The universe is designed in a way that we can exist.
And assuming that these constants could be different,
which is not a thing we know for sure, but we don't see any reason
why they couldn't be different.
There is a vastly huge space of possible universes.
And in almost all of them, life could not even possibly exist.
And so then to me, the anthropic perspective is to say,
yes, we don't exist in those universes.
Right. Right.
So like that is the anthropic principle.
Also, like life as we know it, we still don't know a lot
about the different forms life might be able to take.
Totally. But but us specifically, we happen to exist in the universe that can
sustain humans where it's happened to be as kind of tongue in cheek,
because like we wouldn't be we wouldn't be wondering this if we weren't
in one of those universes. Right.
And this. So basically, this presumes that this is not the only universe.
Right.
Like the biggest thing that comes out of this is Max Tecmark's different
levels of existence where, you know, what in his opinion,
he's a mathematician, it boils down to basically any universe that can be
described by math does exist.
And so we just happen to be in one of them where the conditions are right
for us to exist in, but all potential universes do exist.
Yeah, I have no trouble granting that.
I mean, I don't see why that's necessarily the case,
but it makes a lot more sense than ours is the only one that exists.
So it just happens to have these properties.
Like we, since we don't know about the other universes,
because they're inaccessible to us, either in principle or just in fact,
right now, we're working from a sample size of one,
but we have no reason to believe that we're the only one.
Like I remember when I was a kid, I used to wonder why and like without
even a good scope of or scale of like where the earth was in the in the
galaxy or something, I used to wonder like I had like this in my head.
It was like this big thought when I was like nine and I'm like,
why is the earth like over here when it could be way over there?
Right.
Yeah.
And it's like, well, I do ask the same question from over there.
Yeah, yeah.
Like it, it, and if that sounds stupid, that's because I was thinking
it 25 years ago, doesn't sound stupid.
So something that kids think.
Well, it sounds like a pretty smart thing for a kid to be thinking about
honestly, but most kids don't think about stuff that deep.
Well, I mean, I don't know how deep I got with it.
I'm not giving myself too much credit, but the, I think it's the same sort
of just like realization that like, okay, yeah, we're having this conversation
from here, which means that this is the kind of place that we either can be
or where we in fact are.
So, well, again, it sounds funny because it sounds like it's almost dismissive,
but it is just that's why I see it less of like a principle of understanding
things, I guess that kind of is it's just more like a lens to which to answer
these confusing questions.
And it's like, well, why don't, what if we lived in the universe where, you
know, if the, if you went up 10 feet from the surface of the earth, you'd
burn to a crisp and like, well, because the earth varies more than 10 feet in
height across the globe and the winds that we wouldn't survive there, right?
Like, why does life seem fine tuned?
Because it happens to be where we are tuned by evolution for, yeah.
Yeah, I, for me, the fact that this is such a tiny space.
That we happened of possibilities that we happen to hit in our universe for me
personally is strong evidence that either there were no real other options for
these constants, they had to be this for some underlying mathematical reason
that we do not know, or that there is in fact a near infantude of universes.
And we, you know, obviously are in one where this is possible.
Um, because if it was possible for there to be any of these constants and
there's only one universe and it happens to be this one, I find that extremely
unlikely.
That said, if that was the case, and this was a one in a 10 trillion shot, we
still wouldn't like the factory mains that we're still here having that.
So if we won the one in one trillion lottery, like we just did.
Yes, but that is, that is unlikely.
That is very unlikely.
I can't say that it's likely or not.
We only have one piece of evidence.
Yes.
Like, you can't, you can't use statistics on it if you don't have any priors.
That's a good point.
We also don't really know like where universes come from or the
circumstances that can set them up.
So like maybe the, maybe the life cycle of a universe is that it just runs
through one set of constants, then everything collapses or expands into
not into pointless, you know, heat death.
Yeah.
And then for some magic reason, they start over with a tweaked
fundamental constants or maybe they don't.
But then that means over an infinite time period, eventually you get
through every type of universe.
Exactly.
So we're currently the one that support that is capable of supporting
this kind of conversation.
That's why that's why I say my, my, my guess now is that we either have a
almost no possibility of there being constants other than this or we have
infinite universes because it just being this by coincidence is so
extremely unlikely that as a good Bayesian, I should adjust my probabilities
of that happening by coincidence to very small.
Well, and there are like, there are some things that you know, not impossible
that we do understand that you can tweak that if you tweaked it, then it
would tweak other things like, um, so one place where I read about this
sort of discussion was more in the like fighting the fine tuning argument,
which is the other name for the anthropic argument.
The universe is fine tuned for life.
Their form was on purpose.
Um, what's his name?
Victor Stenger used to teach, uh, physics and Boulder.
Actually he died a few years ago, but he wrote some atheism books in atheisms.
Hey, they, and I'm 95% sure he's dead.
Um, in any case, one of his books was God, the failed hypothesis.
Very, uh, not subtle title.
Um, but it nicely popular book.
Yeah.
And it nicely explains, uh, what his thesis is, is that this is a scientific
hypothesis that we're going to look at and I don't think it checks out.
Um, so he talks about the anthropic principle in there a little bit.
And, uh, Victor Stenger was also on the team responsible for measuring
the mass of neutrinos, uh, successfully the first time.
And so like one of the things was like, well, if there was one 10th or excuse me,
one order of magnitude less than a number of neutrinos than there was in the
universe, um, then everything would expand much more faster or much, much, much,
much faster than it currently is.
And he's like, yes.
Time to coalesce and to matter.
Right.
But he's like, yes.
But if there was, I think it's like what, 10 to the 36th you treat neutrinos or
something in the universe.
If there was 10 to the 35th, but also be that much less, uh, um, or what was
it dark matter or whatever the fuck it was like, basically gravity, uh, what's
like, whatever, for some reason, I'm not a physicist.
It was his understanding that if you tweak the number of neutrinos, you also
tweaked the amount of constant gravity in the universe.
And thus you could tweak it a bit and those numbers would just kind of
balance out on the other side of the scale.
So like that particular one does relate to other things.
Um, so like some of these constants, you can tweak some of them.
You can't, uh, yeah, but I'm with you.
Like I, I, I'm kind of fine with like the multiverse interpretation of it.
I'm fine with the like, I don't know.
That's not a very good question.
Like why are things like it's, it almost isn't really coherent as a question
as far as I'm concerned.
And I feel like a bit frustrated having to try to come up with a coherent answer
to what seems to me to be kind of an incoherent question.
That's like my main reaction to the anthropic principle or argument.
You don't find it unusual that, that, uh, the constants are at the level
they are and not different.
I would find it more unusual if they are, but I would find it more unusual
if we happens to discover that the constants of like physical stuff
in the universe were incompatible with life as we know.
Right.
Then I would be surprised.
The fact that we happen to find them to be consistent with where we're at
is not surprising.
It just strikes me as like a frog sitting there going, why am I a frog?
I could have been, I could have been a horse or a blade of crap, but I'm a frog.
Why am I a frog?
I need to know the answer to why I'm a frog and not something else.
And I'm just like, no, you don't actually, you could worry about other things
because that doesn't seem like it's, first of all, a valid like route of inquiry.
Like, well, I'm not sure what it's going to teach you at the end.
I think, um, I don't know.
I'm not sure if my, like the way I'm trying to protest this is making any sense.
No, it, it, because it, it puts it more in that, that anthropocentric
anthrop, that's hard to say.
Also egocentric perspective where it's like, you're answering it for like, well,
I'm, I'm, I'm right here having these thoughts.
Like, why aren't I somewhere else, something else, some time else having
these thoughts, like, because I'm not.
Do you feel the same way about the, um, God, what is it?
The, why aren't they here yet?
Question.
The Fermi paradox.
Yes.
Do you feel the same way about the Fermi paradox?
What the, it's weird that we haven't found life yet.
It's weird that, um, we can't exist at all and that we haven't already
been colonized before we began to evolve.
Um, no, I don't think so.
I mean, it's all, it's very hard to, I don't know.
Um, so it seems like at least a thousand years or so.
If we don't wipe ourselves out, we're probably going to be colonizing
the galaxy or starting to, right?
Maybe we don't know.
Again, this is another thing where we have no priors except for us.
Uh, so there's no way of saying, like, isn't it weird that things are like this
