and, and not like this other thing that they might have been?
Cause like, is it weird?
I don't know.
I don't know how rare this is for things to be like this.
We, maybe it's not.
I think the Fermi paradox is, is confusing because like the ingredients
for life are abundant throughout the cosmos.
And, uh, I mean, like what?
Carbon is one of the most common elements in the universe.
Oxygen, another very common one.
Hydrogen is fucking everywhere.
The most common element in the universe.
From what we've seen from exoplanets, there's actually plenty of exoplanets
out there that could harbor life that are in the same position we are.
That are in the Goldilocks zone.
We are on their sons.
So like, I think the Fermi paradox would be more troubling to me if we were in
year 28 billion of the universe, rather than 14 billion.
Yeah, we haven't been like sentient for very long.
No, we haven't been, but there's been a lot of planets that have been around
for a long time.
Yeah, maybe they had whole sentient civilizations that have arisen and
fallen and there will go find ruins floating around someday.
Or maybe we won't.
I don't know.
Like, so I think there's a lot of pretty good, I forget what some of them are,
but there were some pretty good explanations for why if life does exist.
We haven't seen it yet.
One of them just being, we haven't been looking for very long.
We're very young compared to everything.
I mean, Robin Hansen specifically uses this, calls it the Great Filter,
that the fact that we haven't seen any alien life already colonizing us is
probably a good sign that almost all civilizations collapse at some point
before they start.
Yeah, or something happens.
We don't know.
Something happens where they don't go out and start colonizing the galaxy.
This strikes me as a baby, like laying in their cradle, being like,
am I the only thing in the universe?
Like, I've never seen another human being before because like you've been alive
for like a few minutes.
No, exactly.
So you, but there's like so much other shit going on around you that you can't
comprehend yet and you have no sense of the scale and what you should even measure.
There is lots of other stuff around them.
Yeah.
I mean, that's what I feel like.
I'm like, there's probably like, we're asking questions that don't feel very
productive to me where it's not so much of a like, here's the thing that I'm,
I wonder why it's, I don't know.
There's some things that I think that this is worth asking this question
because we have ways of actually trying to do experiments on it.
Whereas like this sounds like the, I'm a baby trying to ask adult questions
right now, like we need to know much smaller things first before we could
start asking those big things because we still don't know what the hell is going on.
Like to do, but we understand that we can colonize other planets.
Like it is within our personal grasp technologically within the next coming decades.
We don't know that.
I'd be willing to bet that we could.
Yeah.
I think that like right now we can visit other planets.
Can we settle them?
Maybe not yet, but I'd be, I'd be very surprised if the century wore out
where we were unable to settle Mars.
Yeah.
Maybe we wouldn't do it, but we would have the capability.
Yeah.
Like we're almost there right now.
We might destroy ourselves in the next 10 years.
You know what I'm saying?
Well, that's, that's the great filter problem.
Like does everyone destroy themselves before they start colonizing?
We don't have anything to like base this against.
We don't know how rare or common things are.
So it doesn't make any sense to start trying to say that things are weird.
I think the fact that it looks like it should be pretty darn common
and that it's absolutely not common at all to have, you know,
colonizing life forms in the galaxy.
We don't know if it is uncommon.
We don't know if we just haven't seen any of them yet
because we've been alive for two seconds.
Well, we know for sure we haven't seen them.
I mean, we don't like, we don't know if they're not there
and we just haven't found evidence of them yet.
Right.
We have found no evidence of people colonizing the galaxy.
And we would expect to have found it if they were.
I wouldn't have like, I'm just saying that again,
we haven't been around for very long where these might be things
that happen really frequently over very long scales.
Right. And if they happen really frequently, then like maybe there was
just one species that super colonized the galaxy right before we evolved.
And then like they all destroyed themselves.
And then we're at that period of that kind of thing arising again
and then colonizing the whole universe again.
And then in them dying again.
Right. That is the great filter problem.
Like if things didn't destroy themselves, we would expect to see them.
So and we're not seeing the radio waves.
We're not seeing their technology.
We're not seeing Dyson spheres.
Yeah, we're not seeing them.
There's some pretty good explanations for why we might not be seeing those things.
And again, I'm I don't remember what they are, but I heard some very plausible
like reasons that for why we haven't picked up anything.
But it might still be out there.
And in that like that.
So they could be, I think they what's I think the
and probably Hansen put it this way.
Meat is a wonderful, wonderful story about why we may not be seeing them.
We'll have to wait. What was it?
They're made out of meat.
It's a super short short story.
Do you want to spoil it?
Because I think I've interfered this actually, but I'm forgetting.
Yeah, they actually made a short YouTube video out of it during the writer strike
with some actors were out of work.
It was it's fucking great.
But yeah, the short story is two aliens talking to each other
about this new life form they found.
And they're like, yeah, the life form on this planet.
They're made out of meat.
And the other one's like, what are you talking about made out of meat?
And they just they go back and forth for like two, two and a half pages,
like trying to get it through this guy's head that these aliens are made out of meat.
And finally he's like, let's let's just put in the official records
that this planet is uninhabited and move on, because no one wants to meet meat.
Well, it's it's a great story, man.
But yeah, that would be like if we, you know, put a lot of effort into exploring
the universe, then we found a planet that was just bed bugs.
And we're like, maybe not.
Going to go ahead and write this one off as a, I don't know, whatever.
You know, if we had anything in the backlog of our science books,
like I wonder if this will destroy a planet.
Let's try it on that one.
It's better that future generations just not know that we found this.
This doesn't need to be keeping people up.
And I let's just pretend that that's that doesn't exist.
So like the fact that you exist is evidence of some things.
That things can exist.
Yes. Exactly.
That is that is it.
And the that might be surprising based on your priors.
Like if you think that these constants could be anything that might be surprising.
If you think that it's not terribly difficult for life to get started
and to evolve up to our level, then the fact that there isn't
other life around might be surprising.
And so you use the fact that you're around and that you're not seeing evidence
you think you would see to draw some sort of conclusion, right?
No, I still don't think that we we haven't enough knowledge
to even be able to start generating like questions about these sorts of things.
Because again, we don't know you keep saying it might be surprising.
And I'm like, we don't know if it's surprising because we don't have priors.
Like that's still my answer to this.
I'm not like worried about any of these things yet, because I feel like
we don't have enough basis with which to even start thinking about them.
I think if you aren't worried that we might be approaching
something that wipes out our civilization, don't worry about that.
But you just you weren't worried about it.
I'm not worried about
the the questions of like, why do things exist versus not?
I'm worried about whether we could wipe out our civilization
because we do have priors of civilizations wiping themselves or others out.
Well, I mean, that's one of the things the anthropic principle tells us
that we would expect to not see ourselves existing,
that we would have this planet would have been colonized already, but it hasn't.
And we do exist.
So that is worrisome because it tells us things about
what happens to life before it starts getting to the galaxy colonizing phase.
And since we're touching on like Fermi Paradox stuff,
part of it is that with the admittedly low priors we have,
but the reasonable deductions we can make about the abundance of
of organic matter or organic building material in the universe
and how easy it is to build self replicating molecules here on Earth.
And then the number of Earth like planets in the cosmos.
Why aren't they sending out radio signals?
Why aren't we seeing their spaceships?
Why aren't they, you know, if they were why do we exist at all?
They should have colonized the Earth
and we would have never gotten a chance to evolve.
Well, so that one you can enter on it
dropically because they in fact haven't been here yet.
Yeah. But the other one of like,
if they've had 10,000 more years to do stuff,
you'd think to be doing some pretty interesting things
that one could observe from light years away.
Since we're not seeing those things,
it seems to indicate that either they're for some reason.
Maybe one of the first things that species do is make cloaking shields
it could be that no one can see him.
That's also a not uncommon answer to that that species hide
because the universe is dangerous.
And if you start sending out lasers and radio signals saying,
Hey, we're here. Is there anybody home?
Somebody comes around and eats you,
which like wouldn't be good for us.
Because I think right now we're waving around the hay.
That is another reason to maybe be worried
about the fact that we haven't seen other aliens.
Is everyone else staying silent for some very good reason?
