But and you were more dedicated to the call having to be in the room with the phone.
Yes, rather than just have the phone with you wherever you happen to be.
Yeah, yeah, you were paying attention to the phone because you couldn't do much else.
Right.
Yeah, it was it was very different phones nowadays suck get together with people.
That said, there's a great keen peel sketch which we'll also throw in the show notes
about how easy it is to misinterpret the messages of somebody via text.
You read into it wrong.
Sorry, we're just recommending so many things.
But Malcolm Gladwell's new book Talking to Strangers like the whole book is about this
and it's so good.
I kind of want to do a review of it at some point.
Let's do that for our next episode.
Oh, sure.
I'd like to do that.
I got to finish it first though.
Okay.
I'll be done by then.
I got to I got to give it back to the library.
Okay, cool.
I have to finish it.
We have our tap buck for in two weeks.
Perfect.
Hell yeah.
So this time for real in two weeks, we will be talking about the less wrong posts.
Lana sec update yourself incrementally and one argument against an army.
Which oh man, and these tie in with the things we talked about today too.
Yeah, so it's okay.
We can find ways to tie them into other things.
We happen not to live in a new verse where we got around to listening to these or to
to getting to these.
What we really got to do is set a bomb at every single one of our recordings.
And if we don't get to our things that explodes, so the only universes where podcasts come out
are the ones where we got to them.
If you think that's a good idea, write in on the subreddit or email us or comment on this
episode at the Bayesian Conspiracy podcast or excuse me at BayesianConspiracyPodcast.com.
Or if you, what should we make our reward limit be?
If you want us to set a bomb in the room for the next episode, donate to us on Patreon
at the $1,000 level.
Yeah.
And we will buy a small bomb to put in the room for episodes.
I wouldn't say every episode.
One episode.
I'd be willing to do it for one.
Yeah, yeah.
For every $1,000 that you give us, we'll record an episode of the bomb in the room.
Yeah.
An idea key we'll get to our feedback and shit.
If you don't want to donate at that level, you can donate at a more humane level to us
at patreon.com.
I really hope that we don't have any rich fans now.
I used to not worry about that.
The money will have to come in first for us to record the materials.
I will commit to doing an episode of the bomb in the room if we get $1,000.
Would you?
Hold on.
We got to get buying from all three hosts.
Considering, yeah, hell, sure.
Okay.
All right.
Because.
I'll roll that dice.
Yeah.
Yeah, me too.
I don't think anyone's going to waste that money.
So, but if you want to do it at the smaller level, we also have those options on the
Patreon website as well.
I am willing to trade a tiny bit of measure in the tiny percent of universes where the
bomb explodes on accident for $1,000 and all the other universes where it doesn't.
If anyone at this point is unaware, I'm also like 20, wait, I guess, 16 episodes into a
podcast called We Want More as a read through with a non-rationalist person who has an already
read Harry Potter and Methods of Rationality where I'm doing sort of a, we've got worm ripoff
with them where basically we're going through it a couple chapters at a time and getting reactions
and discussing chapters every episode that airs weekly on Mondays.
It's really fun, guys.
You get to hear about how a non-rationalist reads the stuff and you get to like go through
the whole HPM war again, which I haven't done in years.
I'm really enjoying it now because I mean, as a rationalist, I was listening to it.
I realized how much bias I have in favor of it because I kept having the reaction.
I think I actually texted you once or twice that was like, man, Brian just doesn't get it.
And then I was like, wait a minute, a couple of things Brian said I actually agree with.
And now I'm like, oh, I realize I'm getting defensive about things that he has a good point
about occasionally.
I still do that.
I will say a couple things about it.
One, while I don't know if he's drinking the rationalist Kool-Aid yet, he is enjoying the
story more.
It only took three months, but he's having more fun.
So if you find that his constant shitting on it in the first episodes is turning you off,
that stops.
And that is a Doof Media podcast production.
So you can check out our website on doofmedia.com and find us over there or currently still on
Enya's HPMOR podcast feed, but we're moving it over because it's going to be way too confusing.
So this outro took us only seven minutes.
Excellent.
All right.
Yay.
And yeah, tell people about this podcast, leave comments and reviews that helps get out to
more people.
If you would like to donate a buck a month for this thing, we'd really appreciate that too.
And that won't risk our lives.
And that will not risk our lives.
Yeah.
Ooh, maybe we should have a competing thing.
I was just thinking that.
Like if 100 people donate $10, then the bomb gets taken out again, so there's no risk to our
life.
And that way we get $2,000.
We will discuss the details of the bomb situation should that ever come up.
Okay.
All right.
Cool.
We'll set up like a new reward system where it's like, if you want us to not have a bomb in the room.
Yeah.
Oh, you're so fast.
Perfect.
Okay.
Like we should leave.
Yes.
So we have to thank the Patreon as always.
We would like to once again thank Emilio Alvarez for making this podcast available to everybody
in a general sense and this specific episode to everyone with the request for us to discuss the
anthropic principle.
It was a lot of fun.
And anyone else who wants us to discuss something can donate $10 and we will do that.
And also just wanted to say that I hope we didn't mangle the discussion too badly.
I hope Emilio feels like he got at least a little bit of his money's worth.
Let us know if you got your money's worth.
If you didn't, we'll touch the topic again.
And also, yeah, I think he's got hosting co-host level.
Yeah, he can always come on.
So yeah, you can come tell us why we're wrong.
Yep, please do.
That'd be awesome.
Yeah.
Great.
All right.
Thanks everybody.
We'll see you in a couple of weeks.
Good night, everybody.
