I mean, so there's the filter of life getting started in the first place.
There's the filter of life getting complicated,
which doesn't necessarily have to once you've got self replicating molecules.
Those could be all over the universe,
but you just see nothing more complicated than like sludge.
Right. It's entirely possible that the filter is behind us,
in which case we are set and we know why the galaxy is empty
because there was some great big filter, which we got lucky and got through.
I think it's fun to at least more informative for me to view it as multiple filters
where like one of them is life getting started,
one of them is life getting complicated, like in the eukaryotic sense of,
you know, complicated cells and then cell organelles, that sort of stuff.
And then organisms is another another whole step involved.
I could think of at least two or three more,
but like intelligence isn't a requisite for or isn't a intelligence or sentience?
Or I guess they're a little bit correlated.
Yeah, I think they're correlated at least here on earth.
And I imagine they're correlated elsewhere, but that's purely on speculation.
Like intelligence doesn't necessarily seem mandated by the fact
that there's pre that there's conditions for replicating molecules in that life,
right, or on that planet.
So like you could have a whole planet with nothing smarter than dogs running around, right?
It seems like kind of an accident in history that things as smart as humans
got around on our planet, a whole planet of dogs.
That'd be great, right?
I want to go there and pet all the good boys.
If the universe is big enough, there's probably a planet just full of puppies,
gold retrieval puppies and another one for the planet.
Oh, man.
So like intelligence evolving in the first place is another another filter, I think.
And then another filter, one that we're coming up against next is can you get,
you know, to the point where you can,
you know, what star fare as a species without blowing up the planet first?
Right. Maybe that never happens.
It would be the first five, you know,
happen every 50 years across the cosmos.
We just never see it, but the the last one, you know,
no species so far has made it to the technological stage
where they can travel the galaxy without blowing themselves up.
Maybe faster than light travel is actually impossible
and nobody actually just gets very far.
I got a question for Justin,
because trying to bring it back to the anthropic principle,
basically you're saying that the fact that there's intelligent life exists
shouldn't be surprising because intelligent life does exist.
Because the word surprising doesn't make any sense in this context,
because we don't know how common or uncommon that is.
Yeah. So this is this comes from a post
about the anthropic principle back on all the less wrong stuff.
Nuclear war, obviously a bad thing.
And we should try hard to prevent it.
And we as rationalists all celebrate Stanislav Petrov day
on September 26th for one of the guys who helped prevent the human race
from being wiped out by deciding not to launch nukes when he could have.
And should have, according to operational procedures at the time.
Thanks for not destroying the world.
Yay.
But.
The.
The story that we tell about that and about several other nuclear incidents
makes it seem that the human race came really freaking close
to wiping itself out on at least a number of occasions.
And it's there for somewhat unlikely that we are where we are.
We just managed to get lucky a few times.
The anthropic principle counter to that would be
if we had gotten unlucky and the human race had been wiped out,
we wouldn't be here having this conversation.
Yep.
What? Oh, sorry, finish it.
No, go ahead. Go ahead.
No, if you're going to ask me a question, then I'm going to wait and see
if this was going to be the question before I say something.
OK, well, since that means we can only exist in a world
that didn't dissolve into flames, as this post says, then
then it shouldn't be surprising that the Cold War didn't end because
or that the Cold War.
Didn't like turn into a lot.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
That since since we're here, it's entirely possible that there is
many universes where the Cold War did erupt and all of humanity is dead.
But we are here to observe this.
So we're in one of the few universes where that didn't happen, obviously.
We are also in the universe where I don't know, like maybe there's a parallel
universe where somebody discovered the cure to all diseases accidentally.
And they're like there's really fucking great stuff happening in this other
universe and we're in the shitty timeline.
We just don't know it. Yeah.
Well, we're not in the shittiest timeline because we're not dead.
Right. Like assuming that you take that as a requisite for shittiness.
There's a related thought that I tossed around my head for like 10 years
and then eventually was able to articulate enough to Google and define
that this actually has some stupid name like quantum immortality or something.
I might have mentioned this before.
Oh, I know this.
I found this actually very like comforting to think about when I was first
de-converting. Nice. Yeah, for me, it was just like I've come close
to dying a ton of times, probably more times than I'm aware of,
which is actually scary, right?
I didn't see every bullet that I missed or that I dodged, right?
And yet I'm in none of the timelines where I got killed.
So. Like optimistically, I might.
The consciousness that's in my head between my ears right now might make it
to some, you know, at least, so I guess how to extrapolate is confusing.
If every universe exists, the universe where your immortal exists,
and that means you're immortal, that's actually very reassuring.
Almost no chance of working.
Eventually you'll wake up in the universe where it does work.
Exactly. So that part is pretty cool.
But there's also this is another just anthropocentric bias thing,
anthropocentric framework in that I currently live in none of the timelines
where I was killed, which is a like almost useless
tautology, except the fact that it is also true.
Is this the thing you agree with since you seem to be this anthropic skeptic here?
I mean, you can't disagree with that.
I think it is logically true.
Yeah. Well, right.
But are there other universes?
I don't know. We've died.
I don't know if there are other universes.
OK, so in that case, is it extremely surprising that we that
like Stevens alive?
Is it extremely surprising that the human race is still around?
You keep using the word surprising.
No, because again, we don't we if we don't know,
you can't do statistics on something if you don't know like
or Bayesian statistics, if you don't have priors, I might say rather than
the priors on what the chances are that we made it through the Cold War, though,
right? And we have priors on what the chances are that Stephen is still alive.
We don't know what the odds of not
surviving the Cold War were because we only had one or something, right?
So like that those might be hard to get numbers on.
But like for me, what's more fun to get numbers on?
Well, then it would be somebody else sitting here having this conversation.
But like this is also one of my big problems with the movie Us,
which I really loved large parts of it.
If they had said like to spoil the whole ending, the it's just magic, Stephen.
Yes, but they didn't say that in the movie.
They tried to explicitly say it wasn't.
OK, and so it's a horror movie.
Everything is magic and horror movies.
If they had said this is purgatory, this is hell.
I'd be like, oh, of course, this is the real world.
So it's the horror.
It's the real, yes, horror magic, but they try not to say horror magic.
We try to say science experiment.
You never say horror magic in a horror movie.
You just have your horror movie.
All right. So you say like hand wavies, maybe plausible reason
why this is happening.
But don't don't worry about that, though.
It's not for that relevant.
My thing is that when two organisms mate, the any any chance
of any individual sperm fertilizing the egg is fairly slim.
You know, much of the sperm will never make it there.
Some of them some of them do and not of any one getting in there
is pretty low, right?
You're like, take a bet, you know, in advance at the moment
of ejaculation and say, I'm betting all my all my all my horses
on that one, you'll lose, right?
Yeah. So in the movie us, there are like genetic identical copies
going back generations of people.
And so not only are the people mating at the exact same second
because their kids are all the same age, but it happens to be
the same sperm and eggs being fertilized at the same time.
So that whole thing that's not science.
It is a mirror world.
All right. So of course, everything is the same in the mirror world
because it's a mirror in the mirror dimension.
Great. Perfect. Just say that.
Just say that.
So I will say that.
What is there not to get?
It's the mirror dimension that's in the tunnels underground
because they're pretending it's not the mirror dimension.
They're pretending it's a place that you can just walk to.
You can walk to the mirror dimension.
All right. It's in the tunnels underground, leaving us aside.
I also agree with you that I hate when
fantasies try to be like, this is a science thing.
It's not actually magic.
It's quantum stuff.
It doesn't matter.
But the only time it matters is when it's like Deepak Chopra
and he's trying to sell something, then it's like, shut the fuck up.
Well, I mean, it doesn't matter to the audience what the explanation is.
It like I nobody is sitting there going, wait a minute,
but like monsters aren't real.
So this movie makes no sense.
Like it's like, OK, you know, you're going to see a horror movie.
You can be like, science stuff happened.
Now we got a monster anyway. Now the plot.
OK, so that works in movies where there are like random monsters,
like a quiet place.
Like that was great.
They came from space.
They came from underground. Who knows who cares?
That was awesome.
There was a movie that was a complete rip off of that
that's on Netflix that I forget what it's called,
where it's like these bird monsters instead.
