I haven't read it.
But my like, well, the one thing I know is that not only does it only kill people,
but you can tell them what they do before they die.
And that's the way that they will die.
And I wonder if there's a way that you could set it up to
write something that's like, this is the way this person dies.
And you talk about like, here's how Elon Musk dies.
First he, you know, invents as many things as you could think of.
And then like he like solves world hunger and then and then he dies as an old man in his bed.
To get around that, the one of the rules is that you can only control someone's actions
up to 23 days before they die.
Oh, I forgot about that.
So yeah, there's the 23 day limit.
But you could find people who are probably going to die with them next 23 days anyway.
So kind of terminal illness.
You could try to do something like that.
But it wouldn't be it wouldn't be bad if you didn't mind killing them to say like,
all right, cool.
So this asshole, you know, who might whatever this Wall Street prick or whatever,
I've determined that I'm okay killing them.
I'm going to have them send me $10 million in cryptocurrency, you know, in a hidden way
before they die.
Like, so that would be one way to do it.
If you're going to kill somebody.
If you're sounds like you have chosen to rob and murder someone.
It does.
Okay.
So my but what's fun about this is that the one off chapter is kind of like,
like I said, if the problem to you posed was, say if you,
you didn't want to kill people, but you didn't want to pass up the opportunity to,
you know, not use this for your own personal benefit.
How would you do it?
It's a really fun thing.
It took me 10 minutes to read.
I think it'll have a great time with it.
Sounds super interesting.
So I will put this in the show notes too.
There is a a one off.
It's important to note that it's a sequel to death note.
Like it takes place.
Is it written by the original author or is this like a fan work?
I think it's the original author.
Oh, cool.
If it's not, it is very compellingly done in the exact same art format.
Yeah.
That art style is very attractive.
Yeah.
I've always admired that one.
I wish, I mean, to go off on a quick tangent,
my complaint about a lot of anime and manga and why I haven't kept up with it
is that it's so derivative, very infrequently.
Do you find new types of stories, new character archetypes, new art styles?
That's true.
Basically all media though.
Yeah.
Not less so.
And like, like Western film tends to keep evolving,
whereas because of Japanese culture and people liking the same thing over and over again,
like a lot of it tends to say the same more than it does in cultures that prefer more novelty.
But you know, you still occasionally get the one punch man's and like the unique stuff,
Osamatsu-san, what the heck is that one with the weird anime girls?
Madoka Madoka?
Well, no, that was good too.
Art style is derivative, but new kind of story that was cool.
I'm thinking of the one with like the two high school girls who are shaped like
anatomically very strange and it's a bizarre parody show.
Oh, Pop Team Epic.
It's actually on Netflix.
I don't know if I recommend it or not.
I would recommend skipping around a little bit and watching some of it to get an idea of what it is,
but it was a style of humor that it's so Japanese that it doesn't translate well,
even to somebody like me who's a big weeb and has been pretty immersed in Japanese culture,
like that there's some like specific jokes about stuff that are just like,
first of all, for people in their 30s, probably.
And secondly, like something that maybe like a TV commercial you might have seen on TV when you were a kid,
if you lived in Japan.
And I'm like, I bet that's funny if you know that context.
So there's a lot of that.
But then there's also a lot of just very strange deconstruction of anime archetypes,
things going on that are pretty enjoyable.
As long as we're pitching this, everyone needs to read not watch Berserk.
It's a long read.
It's like at 37 volumes.
It's been going on for over 30 years, but there was like several long year hiatuses.
If you have to watch anything, watch the 1997 anime, but know that only encompasses like
six volumes of the 37 volumes that are out.
Isn't the new Berserk anime one of those ones where they did it in CGI and they tried to make it look drawn,
but it still looks terrible?
It looks at parts of it kind of look like South Park.
But I wish that's like it's getting better.
That technology is getting better.
I'm holding out my hopes that eventually there's a few things that we're done.
And this is such a tangent.
We should get back to talk.
I will just say that the new that the two new seasons finally did stuff.
They also made movies in early 2000s that covered the same arc as the 1997 anime.
What the new movies did or the new seasons did was finally cover after that stuff.
We've been waiting 20 years for it.
And I was just loving seeing things with music and motion again in color.
But everyone hated it so much that they canceled it.
So fuck those guys.
Just learn to enjoy what you get.
I'd rather see it not exist and see it like this.
It's like, no, fuck you.
All right.
As long as we're recommending things, I recommend a really short thing.
I absolutely love Birds of Prey and the fantabulous emancipation of one Harley Quinn.
It was like, okay.
So first of all, you have to already love the character of Harley Quinn or people like her.
Which everyone does.
Not everyone.
I've met quite a few people that don't.
But I am absolutely the fan of like the crazy Genki Riot girl that is just
carefree as fuck, murderous people, lots of violence, doesn't care, doesn't matter.
Right.
And this is that kind of movie.
It's cartoonish slapstick comedy all over the place with fucking ultra violence thrown in
constantly.
And it was so much fun.
I loved it.
I loved it for the same reason.
I love Tank Girl because Tank Girls got the same kind of thing.
And I just, I had the most fun I've had in a movie in a long time.
Cool.
I really want to see it.
There's movies I like better for artistic reasons, but in terms of just fun, oh my god, so good.
In terms of exceeding my expectations, I can endorse it as strongly.
Okay.
Because you were expecting Suicide Squad 2.
Well, so I was expecting Suicide Squad 2 and the trailer looks terrible.
Okay.
You see the trailer and you're like, none of this makes sense.
Even if you'd like Harley Quinn, this looks like a shit movie.
That's how we went and saw it on opening weekend and I loved it.
Awesome.
I thought it was great.
I didn't want to sell you on it too hard, lest you, lest it fall short.
Like I did.
Shit.
What I meant to say is this is a pretty good movie.
You should think about seeing it.
I think it's for a specific person.
I think for many people, it'll surpass expectations.
Okay.
Especially if you're bar or Suicide Squad.
I know.
Go in there and enjoy it.
The person I went to see with Charlie didn't like it, but that's because she doesn't,
she doesn't like the Harley Quinn character type.
Then what was she doing seeing a Harley Quinn movie?
She was seeing it mainly for me.
Oh, man.
But she doesn't like crazy people who are just crazy for the hell of it.
And I do.
So it worked out.
Yeah.
People have, I mean, I also really enjoy movies that are just fun in a way that appeals to me.
But surprisingly enough, some people don't think that just like fun, jolly, ultra violence
is really fun to watch.
They're weird.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I agree.
Should we go on to the next part of our podcast that's going on for quite a while?
No, we should wrap it up.
I'm really disappointed because I wanted to get to the less wrong posts.
We haven't done those in a long time.
I wanted to get the feedback because there's a few good things of feedback.
Should our next episode just be feedback and less wrong posts?
Or will that make everybody sad?
No, that would make everyone sad.
It probably would.
Okay.
Well, how about whatever our next episode is, we really try hard to keep it
like time boxed so we can actually get to the other things that we sometimes do.
We should like have a timer or something with an alarm that goes off.
I mean, that's up to you guys.
Also, it's worth noting that this is the first time we sat down to record with each other
since the live episode, I think.
Sorry for more tangency than usual.
We're enjoying each other's company again.
So hopefully you're enjoying it too.
And you guys did like remote at that point.
And then there was another remote one and yeah, it's been a while.
I really don't like recording remote as much as being in the room with people.
I've been really digging into my phone phobia recently.
I found out that one of the reasons that I hate phone calls is that I lose a lot of
context with tone of voice, facial expression and body language.
And I have such a hard time with those things anyway being on the spectrum that when you take
away more data that I need to figure out what people are saying and what the context is,
then it's and probably most people also feel like this.
Phones are terrible.
They used to not be as terrible like in the 90s where people had landlines.
Yeah, I heard that landline.
Like the quality was a major selling point and like you could hear someone like
just slightly intake their breath like they're about to say something, you know,
it was it was almost like being there in the room except you couldn't see them and not
seeing them.
That is a big deal.
Like being face to face with someone is much better than phones.
