Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Seber.
I'm Jess Dickey.
And we have a patron tier at the $10 level.
People are allowed to choose a topic for us to talk about, which is a thing that we're
going to do now because we have, what's his name?
Emilio Alvarez.
Emilio Alvarez is actually donating at the $24 level, which, Jesus, thanks man, that
is awesome.
That's really nice of you.
And like I mentioned today, when I was PMing you on Discord, you also get to co-host at
those levels.
Yes.
You can hang out.
You totally can.
And I went through recently and PMed the backlog of patrons, and one thing I tried to emphasize
with everybody is that like our rewards for the first couple tiers aren't all that interesting.
So if there's any small thing that you want, we're more than willing to try and find something
that we can do for you in exchange for generosity.
So.
But anyway.
You know, we could do a thing like the Adventure Zone, where if like somebody posts their name
on Twitter, then they'll like mention, they'll use their Twitter name as a character in the
show.
Maybe we could just do it like, if we're making an analogy, it'll be like an analogy about
Christie Snow, who gave us $5.
So say Christie Snow had, I don't know.
They do that on the Doofcast's Weaver Dice as well.
Oh, really?
Did they start doing that?
Yeah.
If you mention them on Twitter, then they'll put your name in the next Weaver Dice episode.
I find that really delightful, actually.
Like, I'm glad that there's people that like, first of all, will pay for something like
that, and I could totally see why they would, because that would be hilarious to have your
name.
I won't tweet about it.
Show them anything that you like.
But how about this, Matt?
I will just shout out that Weaver Dice is something that you guys occasionally do on
the We've Got War, We've Got War podcast.
And so I'm still broadcasting this to people.
I would love for a villain or a hero named The Stevenator to show up in the show.
I think that'd be hilarious.
What would its power be?
You guys decide that.
You guys decide how quickly you want them to die.
I think that'll be really funny, but The Stevenator would be a hilarious cape name.
Just saying.
Okay.
Cape or what is the villain's?
Capes still.
Oh, they're also capes.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah.
So Emilio Alvarez wanted us to talk about the Anthropic Principle, which is what we
are going to talk about due to this awesome request.
And I guess only for as long as we can.
We've got some other stuff we want to hit, but because I asked for some clarification
on it, and there's some that we can try and hit, but basically the Anthropic Principle
is...
I have perfect intro to this.
Go for it.
Okay.
I was going to say the Anthropic Principle, like most things in reality, all started when
God created the world and everything within it.
Because the first place I encountered the Anthropic Principle and probably a lot of other people,
or at least a version of it, was the question, you know, why are humans perfectly suited
to live on this planet if God didn't create us to live on this planet?
And look, he made the world just right for us.
The temperature is just where it should be, the humidity is just where it should be to
support human life.
Obviously, this was created for humans.
Can I retort?
Are you finishing your...
Please retort.
So a couple of things.
So I guess we'll daisy change the definition of Anthropic Principle from that, but I'll
just retort very quickly that if God wanted to, he could have made us able to survive on
the surface of the sun in a vacuum if he felt like it.
Oh, hush.
Now you're just being too logical about things.
Another thing is that I'd never found that argument to be very compelling because people
are like, look at this world.
It's great.
It's perfect for us.
I was like, wait, have you seen the world?
It's terrible.
It's got all kinds of diseases and sharp objects.
It's a shit-ass argument just on its face.
You drop a snake at it mostly anywhere on the planet and we'll die within, you know,
a few days to a few hours.
But I mean, just saying that if you were an all-powerful God, you could have made us
be able to survive in a vacuum in space.
I never found that compelling.
So that's like the strong anthropic principle.
The weak anthropic principle is more, there's actually more fine-tune definitions than the
ones that I'm going to hit on, so forget that I mentioned strong and weak, but you can just
point out that the fact that the universe exists with constants that could hypothetically
be different.
Well, that's the next step.
Okay, cool.
I was just going to say the most natural objection, the easiest objection, I don't know.
Is that saying, look, it's not that the world was suited for us, it's that we are suited
for this world.
The world was here first and we evolved into it to evolve, to live on it.
And if the world had been radically different, we would have evolved to be radically different.
Oh, but Inyash, if the strong nuclear force was a little less strong, stars wouldn't last
long enough for planets to sustain life.
That's the next level.
Of sophistication, once people know a little bit more about physics, they're like, you
know, well, yeah, the if the electromagnetic force was a little different, there would
be no atoms at all, you know, all these things, if the gravitational constant was different,
then we would either be expanding too fast for molecules to form or all crushed down
into a supermassive tiny thing at the center of everything.
And the anthropic principle reply to that is, if that was the case, there wouldn't be
anyone around to ask what is happening.
Why, you know, why are we here to see this?
So the only universes where an intelligence could exist to ask this question is a universe
where the conditions are right.
The the constants are set at levels somewhere approximating this so that something intelligent
can evolve to ask.
I don't even get why, like, there's so many things that never have made sense to me about
this argument.
Like, it's always like everything around us was made just right for us.
And I'm like, well, no, we were an evolved thing.
We made ourselves, we like developed the ability to exist in these circumstances.
But it wasn't like it was like set up exactly right because they knew that eventually humans
who needed like this temperature and this level of electromagneticity and this like
it, we dragged our way into existence.
The analogy I always heard was that was probably stupid.
We did a lot of hard work to survive in these conditions, millions and millions of years
of it. The analogy I always heard was that a puddle woke up and it says, holy crap, look
at this hole I'm in.
That is perfectly shaped to fit exactly me.
It must have been designed by someone not realizing that the puddle was fit into the
hole, not the other way around.
The sun was coming up and soon it was.
And the sun is called unfriendly AI.
Just keep the analogy going.
What does the grass represent?
But then the question is, why isn't the gravitational constant something other than
what it is? Because that one's actually a decent question.
Yeah, I think the anthropic principle is more cosmological than it is anything else.
Or like, yeah, it's more physics than it is biology, where biology at its root is
physics, but like it's not so much of, hey, look, we have eyes that are adapted to
see within a range of a range of the electromagnetic excuse me, the electromagnetic
spectrum that lets us see various things like, you know, be able to detect food and
stuff at a distance.
It's like, no, that's not an accident because that's the evolved thing.
Like the question behind that is like, how come light works at these wavelengths?
How come how come atoms bonded this strength or whatever?
I almost feel like that starts to get into the hole.
Why does something exist as opposed to nothing?
And like the question where it's like, that's not even like, I see why you can phrase
that as a question, like why, why grammatically that can make sense as a question.
But like, it doesn't it's not even really a thing to ask.
Like, why is there something rather than nothing?
But like, do those concepts even make sense?
Something and nothing?
Well, no, that maybe I got two thoughts on that.
Go for it.
One is that some some physical constants, like the speed of light, aren't constants
in the sense of like, couldn't be otherwise.
Like planks constant just happens to be like the smallest measurable distance
between what, two subatomic particles or something.
This speed of light is just is the measured observation of how fast light goes.
Light could go faster, slower.
And then that would be the speed of light.
So like that one is an observed measurement.
So like that constant, the fact that it happens to be the same everywhere.
Maybe that's a question that you could ask.
But what its speed is, is something that you observe by looking at reality
and then finding that it's like one that.
Like you're saying, like, so some of the answer to some of this
is because that's the way you're interpreting it.
Well, because yeah, because that's what you've measured.
Like there was somebody there was a funny, I forget what separate I saw this on.
But it was like, oh, yeah, you know, and then the sound so obvious,
something like might have been a troll.
But you tell me that the universe isn't beautifully designed.
Why does water freeze at zero degrees Celsius and boil at 100 degrees Celsius?
You're going to tell me that that's not like on purpose.
And it's just like that is on purpose.
That's why we built Celsius around those two those two things, those two properties of water.
So like, oh, yeah, the melting point of water with regard to Celsius
isn't a isn't like a constant that you're like trying to explain.
It's like the banana man thing.
Yes, we're like, why is a banana so perfectly designed to fit into the human hand?
It's like clearly had never seen a banana before to be cultivated by humans
or any animal or plant that we eat currently.
They're all like they've been warped over time by by genetic engineering.
Let's just call it what it is.
I get so mad when people are like, CRISPR is like evil and scary.
But like horticulture is fine and natural because we're using viruses to do it.
But we can't see that or radiation, radiation, so delicious.
There is like a non religious approach to the anthropic principle,
which like in the things we were talking about was the anthropic argument,
which is slightly different from the anthropic principle.
