aliveness chain of causality two or three years ago, it's downtown.
Somebody dropped their like reflective vest crossing a street
and I don't want to get run over.
I saw the light change.
I ran out and grabbed it.
And as I turn around the truck on the other side of the intersection,
I decided just to punch it.
And as I turn, I see their their mirror go right past my face.
If I had moved while turning instead of just turned,
I would have been knocked over by this thing and it's going something
like 25 miles an hour, but it was as tall as I was.
It would have killed me. Right. Yeah.
So in that sense, I am like diminished in the number of universes
that I exist in because now there's one less Steven because in some number
of universes, I did get creamed by that truck.
Steven bottleneck. Yes. Yeah.
So the Stevenators superpower.
Sorry, I think we were talking about this before.
So was there started recording?
But what Steven said?
Oh, no, that's going in.
What is what? What should they make the Stevenators?
Kate, power Steven was saying that, like, he wanted there to be a villain
called the Stevenator.
And Kate, power is the same luck.
I said, what power would he have?
But then we didn't think about it.
I think that it's like to undo the Steven bottleneck and just gather
all the Stevens from all the universes.
But they're all dead.
But but to like pull them back and then coordinate them in just the right way.
Like, OK, this one from this universe does this, which interacts with this.
So there's just a chain of Stevens causing things to happen that he wants to happen.
All right, Matt, you heard that a reverse scapegoat level seven.
That's what I want. Perfect.
By pulling Stevens for a bunch of other universes.
You happen to be on the ladder who dropped the thing, who caught the thing.
When that when that the guy was trying to punch you in the face.
When that happened to you, where you were almost hit by the mirror thing.
Why did you think, wow, think of all the universes where the Stevens died,
as opposed to, wow, there is some cause or that just saved me from being hit by that?
Because it's the exact opposite reaction you had to the LHC.
Because getting hit by a truck is a fairly frequent thing that happens, I guess.
OK. But it was a coincidence, basically, that saved you.
Yes. So.
And it would have been a coincidence that saved the human race in the LHC.
But five or six bizarre coincidences in a row.
You've had five or six times that you almost died in your life, right?
Yeah, but not doing the same thing.
I don't know. One of them seems more intentional,
but that's probably me just being like applying too much intentionality to it.
So and it's easier from my perspective or like, obviously,
I'm able to ask the question because I didn't die.
So the the the the thought the thought experiment with the with the LHC
is that every time they tried to turn it on or every time that they did,
they destroyed a timeline, basically.
Every time they did, they destroyed almost all timelines.
The only ones that didn't get destroyed were ones where stupid rare coincidences happened.
That's really funny. I.
I'm just going to let that intuition pump for a while and have fun with it.
I don't. OK. Is there a question I'm answering?
This is a much more fun topic that I was expecting because I thought
I was just going to be rolling eyes and talking about how much
I hate the anthropic principle.
Well, my question was going to be why you went with the coincidence,
saved you as opposed to a cause or saved you for the truck thing.
How many times have causes saved you?
It's hard to say, right?
If there is if there is subtle as as putting squirrels in in particle colliders,
or a subtle as making you not move forward when you turn for some reason.
Does it seem like this was a thing that could never have happened?
And it's really confusing as to why this thing might have hit you,
but then you moved and it didn't.
Or has that kind of thing happened in your life before?
No, that's the thing.
It's not something that is extremely like it's not impossible to happen.
Like whether Stephen moved forward as he turned or not is basically luck.
So it it doesn't need a cause or no.
But whether the squirrel got stuck in this tube or not was also basically luck.
It doesn't need a cause or either.
And probably didn't have one.
I guess I can I can view it from the other way on the LHC one, which is just saying,
yes, we happen to live in all the universes where the LHC didn't destroy the planet.
Yeah. Or we happen to live in at least one of those.
Well, we live in one of the dark lords of the matrix explanation first.
Because there were a bunch of unusual.
And like I said, at 20, it sounds like it's it's conspiring to make this not.
It sounds like the universe itself, like time itself is folding in a way
that makes it don't let this thing turn on, right?
Well, I would be at that point is noticing confusion.
It looks that way.
But that's just because all the other universes where something crazy happened
didn't happen or destroyed.
So you're only you're getting the illusion of somebody conspiring to make this
not happen just by the fact that every time it did happen, that universe is gone now.
So there's no one left to observe the evidence.
That's a fun head scratcher.
OK, I like I said, I I'm not in any real way.
I'm not attributing any causality or intentionality to any of these things
because we're now talking in something too distantly hypothetical.
I guess at that point, it makes me kind of wonder, no, it doesn't.
It just raised the question differently.
Like what it would take?
What would count as evidence of, you know, some intelligence for striving the universe?
But that could just I mean, the universe behaving in a way that we haven't observed
that confuses us would be like some evidence towards that.
But there could also be a bunch of other hypotheses other than there's like an
intelligent thing like maybe like us that's doing things for some reason.
Yeah, like if the stars at night were to rewrite themselves into a message
that said, hey, look under your pillow, there's a hundred dollars.
And everybody saw it had a hundred dollars to the pillow.
That'd be super weird, right?
Would that be that?
I mean, that's not that sounds like what they would do is it would be written
in in Arabic and it would be a Quran under your bed.
Right. Yes, that was my there was there was a joke about
Mel Nonjiani like that, where he was raised Muslim and he had said that,
you know, because in Pakistan, women can't drive.
He's like, you know, it says in the Quran, women can't drive cars.
And he's like, OK, so if if it said in the Quran, which was written
fourteen hundred years ago, that women can't drive cars, I know two things.
One, I would be at the mosque right now and so would you and that women shouldn't drive cars.
If it said that if it said that in a thousand and fifteen hundred years
will invent these boxes that you can push the pedal down and drive around in.
So the thing is, I'd still be like, oh, I guess a lot maybe exists and also he's a dick.
So like that's what I think about.
If God exists, then I'm still like if some like weird coincidence thing happened
that like I was like, oh, it looks like the Christian God exists.
I still wouldn't go to church because I'd be like someone made the world like this.
Someone made the world like this.
Excuse me. I have some complaints.
Where's the line?
I want to see your manager.
Like, first of all, germs.
I like that your first go to is where's the line?
I want to see the manager, whereas my first go to was murder.
Yeah, I mean, honestly, like, I really love this is going to be a weird tangent.
The like, what was it?
The bewitching tales of Sabrina, whatever the fuck, the new Sabrina thing is on Netflix.
There were a bunch of people that didn't like it for various reasons.
And a lot of the people that I knew that didn't like it were people
that identified as Wiccans or Pagans and they were like, they're getting it wrong.
It's I was like, OK, it's fiction, whatever.
They're they're misrepresenting wishes.
And I'm just like, OK, whatever.
But like another thing was I was like, first of all, this this clearly
like if you look at the structure of this show, it's like this girl discovers
that it's it's this like wacky alternate universe where
everybody seems to be kind of fundamentalist Christians, but they're actually
fundamentalist Satanists and the society is structured pretty much the same way
except their witches and the worship Satan.
But they still like have black mass and they have arguments with their aunts about
like, oh, but we can't do the baby sacrifice tonight.
I have to date with Harvey and like, but like Sabrina at some point realizes that
like, hey, wait a minute, Satan says that like, these are his values.
But then the way he actually acts, it's like, these are his values.
You know what?
Satan's a dick and I'm going to become a stronger witch and find him and kill him.
And it was basically like, so I love the idea of the fact that the show exists.
You could never make a show where you find out that God is literally real and like
the little kid who was a Christian their whole life looks at what the world is
actually like versus what the Bible is like frowns and is like, I'm going to go
kill God, I'm going to go get like, go on a quest, level up, find some magic
angel swords and shit and then like go kill God.
Like that would be the show that I want to exist because that would be my
conclusion if I was like, oh, someone made this like this.
What a dick like this person shouldn't be in charge.
Two quick questions.
One is the new Sabrina show any good?
Like, is it fun watching?
It's, um, it's, I'll say that it's got things about it that are problematic
and I'm okay with that.
Like, I really hate the mentality that a lot of people have, which is like, if
any of my media has things that are problematic, then I boycott it.
I'm like, you're also allowed to like other things about it and say, these
parts were cool.
That part could have been better.
I also hate the word problematic.
It sounds like I want to find something to complain about, but I'm going to be
super vague and be like, this is, this is.
It has the suggestion that it has a problem that probably relates to
social justice, aligned concerns.
Right.
And they're the ones who use the word problematic.
Like if someone says something is problematic and makes a cringy face, I
assume I'm like, okay, is it racist, sexist, ableist or some otherist?
If they say it's problematic and makes a cringy face, I can almost
guarantee that I'll have no problem with what they're talking about.
I mean, like no, no one says like, oh yeah, this, this, this person raped
a bunch of people.
That was so problematic.
That's true.
Okay, I see what you're saying.
You don't say something problematic if it's actually bad.
I see what you're saying.
So, but anyway, I will also say that like real Wiccans complaining, quote,
real Wiccans, whatever.
That's like when they made the Lady Thor comics and people were like, oh my God,
Thor is like an actual like, you know, deity.
And when it's like, Thor is not real either, you fucking nerds.
