So far, so good. Yeah.
That's not how you think.
Right. And that's definitely not how I operate, but I also don't have numbers.
So then that's also not how you think about the universe.
And so you should put a much higher prior probability
on the fact that God exists to create, have created the universe exactly how it is.
Well, let me just have I actually answer the robot thing.
It sounds like it's because if you wait, wait, wait,
both of you are trying to talk at the same time.
Yeah, let me let me answer the robot thing first.
I think if I was the robot, I would conclude after 10 jumps that I'm probably
on, I'm probably in the 25 percent probability zone
where I had a false positive, OK, that's a lot of coin flips to come up right.
Right. So I'm assuming like, OK, cool.
My engines are probably fine.
That's where I'd probably end up.
OK. And that that kind of reasoning makes sense.
And you add the probability that the engines are probably fine to that
calculation and you disregard the anthropic principle because it doesn't apply.
And what are you going to say?
How does God come into this picture?
Well, God comes into this picture because then if you're discarding
the anthropic principle entirely, you can't use it to explain why the universe.
But there's so many other like really compelling reasons why God seems to not exist.
Well, yes, but it's still it would maybe just taking away
one of my negative evidences for God would raise me from like, you know,
seven thousand six hundred billion, like for some
something decided that these constants should be the way they are in this universe
for a specific reason, as opposed to random chance.
And I don't know what.
And that says nothing about whether it was God.
But you're willing to bite that bullet to say that something
designed these constants to be what they are. No.
Oh, I thought you just said, yeah. No, I like.
I'm saying that I don't think that the anthropic principle makes any sense as a question.
I don't think that the why are things?
Question mark is that you can make it into a grammatically correct sentence.
And then it seems like because it's a question, it should have an answer.
But I think that that's just a glitch in our brain and our way of thinking
about things in terms of causality.
I don't think that I think that we're poorly equipped to think about physics
in ways that we probably should be thinking about physics.
And this one is just you're trying to anthropomorphize like physics.
And then.
Yeah. OK.
I think that.
The quote, fine tuning argument is very weak evidence for some sort of intelligent creation.
Yes. So like it sounds not.
It doesn't sound like evidence in favor of.
Well, I guess it is, but very like nothing that I'd ever.
It's one of the hypotheses for why are things like this?
Right. Yeah. So like I could say, OK, cool.
Maybe there exists a reality above ours, where they have computer simulations running,
where they've tweaked cosmological constants that everyone's concerned
about in all of these anthropic questions and or in these fine tuning questions.
And this is one of those universes that can sustain life.
That that sounds not impossible.
It's not high on my expectation list, but yeah.
All right. Can I hit two more bullet points before we move on? Please. OK.
OK. The first one is a fairy tale that's not actually a fairy tale
because it actually happened in real life history.
The I'm assuming you're both familiar with the Large Hadron Collider.
Yes. At the time it was being built.
And I think still to this day is the largest super collider ever created.
And they change its name, if not.
Well, then they just make a larger Hadron Collider.
Side note that is like the naming convention in a lot of physics and astrophysics things.
Yeah. And it's like, yeah, we have that we have the large array of telescopes.
Well, now we have the very large array because it's bigger.
Big fucking array. Yeah.
What's that? Do we actually have that?
No, I wish we did. OK.
I know there's an XKCD with this.
What's that big black hole?
We want to call it. Well, black hole.
It's not like a good name for it. Perfect.
Yeah. I believe it was black hole.
I know Big Bang was originally like used as a derisive term by someone who didn't.
We thought it was poppycock.
I'm not sure if black hole feel went that way, too.
I'm not sure.
I just love how that seems to be a theme and naming things in physics.
Yeah. Physicists are very much like, let's just get to the point.
Yeah. So we've got the LHC.
We got the LHC, yes.
And at the time it was being built, there were a few people who said,
you know, we don't actually know what's going to happen when we smash these particles together.
It's a tiny, almost infinitesimal, but nonzero probability that we could create
strangelets, which are a type of particle that when they touch a different particle,
turn that particle into themselves.
So it would create a change reaction that would turn all of matter into just
strangelets and basically all life and everything would cease to exist,
because everything is now this one type of particle or this one type of
subatomic thing that doesn't interact with things like the corks were used to interact.
When you say there were some people concerned about this,
is this the same group of people that was worried that we'd accidentally
make a black hole, like the non-scientist idiots?
Well, let me phrase that, because that's totally variable.
The non-scientist, the non-subatomic particle physics.
The late person.
How about that?
The late people who were also like of the mindset of these highly trained
scientists don't know what they're doing and they're endangering all of us.
There were. Or was this a scientifically informed concern?
No, but there were a few, this was a scientifically informed concern
because there were a few subatomical experts who said this is a nonzero
possibility, but it's so unlikely we're not taking it seriously at all.
It just seems ridiculous.
OK.
I would go with their consensus, because I don't know.
Yeah, right.
But then, like, weird things started happening where the large
Hadron Collider kept not being turned on when it was supposed to be turned on.
Oh, yeah. Oh, it's they've invented time travel in the future
and they're going back to be like, don't use the time collider.
Well, not even necessarily that time travel doesn't have to exist
for the anthropic principle to work, because I think one of the things
that happened is like a squirrel found its way inside or some kind of small
environment or bird died just in the right spot inside.
I know what that was. What was it?
That was when all humans got wiped out from the large Hadron Collider.
The squirrels became sentient and then they developed time travel
and they sent their squirrel ambassador back in time.
No, no, no, no, no, no. There's no time travel involved.
The thing is there's an absolutely infinitesimal chance
that a squirrel would get into the large Hadron Collider and chew on this one
little thing and short it out for months on end.
So it didn't happen in almost all universes and they turned on the large
Hadron Collider and it destroyed the earth.
The one that we live in is the one where the squirrel managed to get in
and stop the large Hadron Collider from being turned on.
And, you know, when that happened, OK, that's a coincidence.
Guess we're down several million dollars while we fix this shit
and wait a few more months.
But like this happened three times in a row.
And at what like really ridiculous, insanely unlikely coincidences.
And at what point do you say,
maybe we shouldn't turn this fucker on?
I don't know. I've worked with technology and really insane, crazy coincidences
that break your technology happen a lot.
I agree. And I mean, they did eventually turn it on and the world did not end.
But the question is, how many of those would have to happen
before you would say, let's not turn it on?
Like if we got to the point where 20 times really stupidly ridiculous
thing happens, I'd start being worried at that point. OK.
Yeah, that that that at least confused.
Because it happened three times.
I would notice confusion if something seemed like
it happened three times.
And after three times, a few people started saying, hey, guys.
But again, that's also because we do have priors
of how often these kinds of weird things happen.
Well, we don't have priors and how often scrolls break into
the lighters, right?
So like maybe that happens one hundred percent of the time
we build super colliders.
We have some amount of data for how often,
like there are ways that we could actually run Bayesian analysis on this
and be like, how likely was this to have happened
because we have data on similar things happening or not happening?
Counterfactually speaking, if the fourth time had been like someone
dropped their hot dog and slipped on it and managed any health themes
started playing, right?
If something ridiculous happened and it got delayed for another few months
of fourth time, at that point, would you have all given credence
to the anthropic principle and being like, gosh, I'm really worried
about the number of universes we've destroyed now.
See that at that point, I might keep trying to turn it on.
But to like I'm like, OK, so if someone's doing something to
interrupt this, then like keep sending them like
let's let's really push this.
Like if something is going to consistently like keep happening
in order for us to stop doing this, it's not like they're going to be like,
ah, they they keep they flip the switch three times.
Now they're about to flip it a fourth.
I guess we tried to warn them three times.
But no one's trying to warn anyone.
It is entirely just a matter of luck and which universes survive.
The more weird times that happened that would up my
expectation that we're living in a simulation or there's some intelligent
hand making things like imagine if, you know, we had squirrel proofed it.
We had said no food allowed.
Someone could trip and die or choke on their food or whatever.
And then the two people go to start it and they both have aneurysms.
Like at that point, I'm like, OK, cool.
It's something intentional is happening or something.
Yeah, I mean, like some people have aneurysms.
That happens. I'm curious to happen like the fifth thing.
Yeah. Yeah. So I'm curious, why would you go to it is someone is coordinating
this rather than there are human that causes are made by causes like us.
Yeah, but OK, that's maybe my intuition that's generating it.
I haven't finished your question.
I'll see if I can answer it.
Well, my question was just, yeah, why is there a cause or rather
than there's an infinite number of universes and we are killing ourselves
in almost all of them and the only ones that are still around to wonder
how weird this thing is are the ones where some stupid, crazy, ridiculous accident happened.
The last time I spent any time, like any measurable amount of time
up until today, thinking about the I get if it is called quantum immortality,
I'm not sure, but that idea that like I like my my own egocentric
