Since.
Oh, wait, I just let me finish that thought.
Yes.
The downside is it doesn't seem like I absorbed all those dead Stevens powers.
Great fight did.
Well, if there's an almost infinite amount, you got to kill a lot of Stevens.
That could also be the Stevenators power.
So, dude, what you got to do is go out there and take an insanely risky thing
where you die 99.99% of the time and the you that survives is going to be
ultra powerful and you can take over your universe.
Or more cheaply, I could just buy a gun and just do Russian roulette
all weekend, every weekend.
Yeah, that works too.
Yeah, no, I think I'm good.
So somewhere along the line, like this might be a thing that like
anthropically, historically, I live in a universe where I haven't died yet.
That doesn't mean I want to test my luck.
I don't know why it doesn't mean that, but it does.
That's a good question because it's called quantum suicide.
And it's a thing people have proposed.
Like if you if you really want a lot of money, set up some sort of quantum
random number generator, it would have to be quantum because if it's just
mechanical random number generator, we have the same numbers in every universe.
But quantum effects are truly random.
So quantum random number generator, play that lotto with those numbers.
If you lose, you shoot yourself.
The only universe where you survive is the one where you won the lotto.
So basically what you do is you buy a lotto ticket, you go to bed, you wake up
the next morning and you're like, oh, hey, I want the lotto.
I'm so glad I don't have to shoot myself.
That is all you see from your perspective.
OK, so what would it mean if tomorrow we saw a news headline?
I'm going to propose two different headlines.
One, somebody wins the lottery and they explain that's how they won.
The other the other version is that we see on the news that somebody killed
themselves and their suicide notes that here's what I was trying to do.
They tried to do a quantum suicide if anything really awesome ever happens to
me that gets me on the news or if like really unfortunate things happen
and I end up committing suicide in both cases.
I think I'm going to write that letter just to fuck with people.
So that would be my my theory as to what would be going on.
There's that the person thought of that joke.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I think the idea of being joked with is a higher probability of.
Actually happening.
Right. Yeah.
And the fact is you you're trading away almost all of your measure
across all the multi universes for a ton of money in one.
I wouldn't do it because I don't know that whether there's a multiverse or not.
And that's another thing that I have no way of knowing what the probability
of being a multiverse or not is.
Yeah, it would be cool if it were like it generates cool thought
experience like thinking about it.
If you're totally selfish, if you're the kind of person
who defect against yourself in a prisoner's dilemma,
then this sounds like a great gamble for you.
Right. Why fuck all those other Stevens.
I get to win the money.
They're all dead. Yeah, exactly.
So it also fuck all of your family and loved ones and all those other universes.
I don't I'm never going to meet them anyway.
Right. I actually have a thing to play in this universe.
It's the Steven gravy train.
There's a graphic novel.
I think it's called The Infinite Vacation that had some kind of.
I'm trying to remember what the plot was.
I can't exactly remember it was.
But it's something to do with multiverses and multiple versions of a guy
being part of just like really trying to remember.
I don't know. There was this convoluted thing that happened
and it was one of them trying to switch lives. Oh, that was it.
Yeah, they were like there was
interdimensional payment system for if you want to switch lives with one of your other selves.
Does someone else in one of your other selves also have to sign up for that service?
Yeah, like it has to be like a mutual agreement.
That sounds like a shit deal then, basically,
because they're like what's sucking up.
What if you were like, Steven, what if you're you now,
except like maybe you're having some kind of financial crisis and then like you from
a universe where everything's exactly the same, except for there's a lot more mosquitoes comes
and is like, hey, I'll give you the amount of money you need in order to deal with your car
accident or whatever. If you switch universes with me where everything will be the same,
but there will be more mosquitoes.
Do I get to know what I'm signing up for before I click yes?
Or do I just have to know that some other Steven
and another timeline wanted to switch universes?
I don't know, like I don't think the graphic novel goes into
because that actually drastically adjusts how much I'd be willing to do this.
Because if I got to know and I'm like, you know what,
I'm okay with more mosquitoes, I'd rather have $10 million than I would do that.
If all I knew is that another Steven also wanted out of their universe,
oh god, I would think now fuck that.
Because of quantum differences that Steven might be different than you have different values.
What if the universe was exactly the same, except this other Steven had no back trouble,
perfectly healthy back, except he was in a lot of financial debt.
At what level of financial debt would you not make that trade?
I mean, how disastrous to my life is the financial.
Is it like, say, student loan debt?
That's the question.
But is it like student loan debt where I get 30 years to pay it off
and it's like something I can live with?
Or is it just like you're going to be homeless forever?
Probably not homeless homeless, but maybe living out of your car
and working 14 hours a day.
The car stuff sounds like a drag.
If it was like student loan debt where it's like you're paying this horrible deal for you
interest, I would say $200,000 at least as a quick guess because that's
an upper end of what people spend on school and it gets them fuck all.
I mean, you get credentials, don't get it wrong, go to school if you want to.
I'm moderately against this is super tangential.
I think depending on your industry that you're pursuing,
you can trade school your way there a lot faster and cheaper.
And you certainly don't need a credential from an Ivy League school to like,
I don't know, I'll poke fun at Brian, my co-host and if we want more, he was an English major.
I don't know where he went to school.
If he got an English major from Harvard, I think that's super funny.
Like to imagine him right now still paying off Harvard student loan debt.
Well, actually it wouldn't be because he went to school when school is more affordable.
But let's pretend you had $200,000 worth of student loan debt to pay off an English major.
For an English major, yeah.
Or you know, we don't need to make fun of someone who maybe didn't do that.
John Mulaney I think was $120,000 in student loan debt, the comedian.
Getting an English major.
So we've already had the school talk discussion,
but I think it's an interesting way to phrase,
to rethink about how much you're willing to pay for something.
Like if I could swap into a universe where I didn't have this problem,
how much financial debt would I still be willing to make that trade?
And at what point is the debt so crushing that I wouldn't make that trade?
That is a good intuition pump actually.
I think it could be crushing for me at the level where I'm homeless.
Like that's a big drag.
What if you had to just live in a really shitty neighborhood?
Where there's, you know, gunshots.
There's often cockroaches in your house,
but it's all you can afford because you got all this debt.
John Mulaney I feel like I could cockroach proof my place.
John Mulaney Those fuckers there.
John Mulaney I've lived in places that are adjacent to like, you know,
not base, I don't know, to higher than what I'm comfortable with,
base levels of violence running around.
John Mulaney Okay.
John Mulaney And it's crazy cheap.
It's dope.
John Mulaney Yeah.
John Mulaney $370 a month for rent.
Man, those were the days.
John Mulaney I am no longer willing to live in a place where I have to worry about my stuff.
Like, I always lock my doors just because it's a good habit.
But if my door were to not be locked, I wouldn't be worried because
no one in this neighborhood needs money so badly,
they would risk jail time to walk into my house and steal things.
John Mulaney On the plus side, if you're broke as fuck,
you don't have any stuff worth taking.
Man, that's true.
John Mulaney So people will be breaking your deal.
John Mulaney Have you had stuff stolen before?
Man, that's true.
John Mulaney Me?
John Mulaney Yeah.
Man, that's true.
John Mulaney It's just something that bothers you about having to have that paranoia in the background.
Man, that's true.
John Mulaney Yes.
I don't want to live in that constant.
John Mulaney I feel you on that.
That would be stressful.
Man, my childhood growing up, we used to just not lock the doors to our house ever.
John Mulaney Oh, really?
Man, I get a little bit frustrated now with having to lock doors and worry about my stuff
being stolen in the background, both because A, now I live in an area where I live in an apartment.
It's maybe not the best area.
It's more likely people might take my stuff.
By the way, not the best area in Denver is one of the nicer areas in a lot of other cities.
It's like there might be a tattooed person smoking on a street corner
or like a piece of litter blowing by in the wind and you're like, oh man, this is a bad area.
There's gum stuck to that bench.
John Mulaney I mean, I was in Denver for like a month before I saw my first needle on the sidewalk.
I mean, and I almost, you know, I could have stepped on it.
That would have been uncomfortable.
Man, John Mulaney There's some places in the area that are much worse,
but they're not downtown.
Man, they're still not bad.
When I visited you, when I was visiting to see if I wanted to move here for the first time and
I crashed at your place and I was driving around a bunch of different areas, I remember people
saying, I think West Colfax is the area with a reputation.
And I like went there and I'm thinking about Atlantic City level bad.
I'm walking around like this is the bad area of Denver.
Like you guys are spoiled as fuck.
We got a pretty good compared to a lot of other places.
You know, certainly not as bad as Gotham in any of the movies I've seen recently.
That's right.
Yeah, it doesn't have Batman.
So I don't know how bad would you want your city to be
if it meant that you also got to have a Batman?
I don't know.
I mean, about as bad as Denver.
Batman doesn't seem to have done all that much good for Gotham
considering how shitty Gotham still is.
I also never got why like everyone stayed in Gotham.
