Like the, and, and to be, if we're going to nitpick the Thor of the Marvel
comics is not the same deity that was worshiped 500 years ago.
And wouldn't you think that if he was real, just the fact that they're still
telling stories about him would be like, oh, they still care about me.
It depends on, it depends on how, uh, why do you think these gods are, right?
I think that the Thor of the Norse mythology, if he were real, would probably
like still be touched that people were making stuff in his honor.
He'd chug a beer, smash it on the ground and yell, another.
I mean, Odin was apparently in the, uh, the, whatever, um, the religious
version of Odin is kind of an asshole, right?
So he might not have.
Oh my God's are assholes.
That's what I like about the old gods is that they were
they might not appreciate being misgendered.
So I will leave all that aside and then I'll just do a quick skip.
30 seconds.
If you haven't seen the good place, but want to, do you want me to spoil it for
you or do you want me not to, uh, I haven't seen the last season.
Do you want me to spoil it?
If you've made it through the first three, the fourth one's actually kind of fun.
So I'm not going to say anything.
Oh yeah.
I'm totally going to watch it.
Okay.
Then never mind.
Okay.
Um, well, something happens in the good place that relates to this.
It has the good place.
I will say that I'm not going to spoil the ending.
I'll just say that it has a fun problem that I think it solves weekly,
but it still makes the show fun.
I think it ended fun in a good way.
Um, it raises when you watch it, we'll have an interesting
conversation about utopias and see the, yeah.
Okay.
All right.
It's not available on Hulu yet.
Is it?
Yes.
It is available on Hulu.
No, it's not available on Netflix.
No, that's the problem.
It's available on piracy.
Probably like a year.
Hmm.
Maybe I should just, just part it.
Just part it.
I don't like pirating.
We would never pirate anything.
We're good copyright-bearing patriots.
Yeah.
Wait, I wouldn't go so far.
I absolutely would.
I love my nation and its laws.
If you feel bad about it, pirate it and then like, send some money
to the creators of the show.
That's what I, as long as I'm on that note, like I, I downloaded all of,
um, I never would actually, I never download anything.
That's a crime, but.
You paid for it and then downloaded all of.
The, uh, it's called Mythic Quest Ravens Banquet.
It's a show by Rob McElhaney.
He plays a Mac on It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia.
He runs a game studio where they like make this basic world of
Warcraft style game and it's fucking hilarious.
It was like nine episodes long.
It's on Apple TV plus whatever.
I don't want to pay for a subscription to watch this show,
but the first two episodes are available for free.
And like what I'd love to be able to do is Venmo, Rob McElhaney, 20 bucks
and be like, I really enjoyed your show.
Um, there's probably more money than, and granted, other people worked on it.
They should get a cut too.
I was going to say that's kind of fucked up because a lot of people work
on big group projects like that.
But I could theoretically have watched this for $5.99 for like one month
subscription and that's if it took me a month to watch it, right?
So like, if I could, I would rather just be able to give them 20 bucks and
say, Hey, can I have this?
Great.
Thanks.
But how do you split up that 20 bucks among everyone?
That's the problem.
They need split up to $6 among everyone.
Like when you pay for say Netflix, then some of the money you pay is going
to the creators of the show.
And then a bunch of the money is going to the creators of Netflix who have
created a platform and then limited your access to this thing that was created
unless you pay for their whole platform.
So at what point do you draw that line?
That's a good question.
Keep it alive.
And that makes sense.
Like, you know, specifically how can you like, you'd have to know the name
and PayPal address or Venmo name of every single person that worked on the project.
It'd be nice if they had like a shared Bitcoin wallet or something that I
could just, you know, shoot five bucks into my point is to be nice.
Like my other version of this is I think that it was available after the
season came out, but like, I don't like to be able to spend three bucks per
episode of Game of Thrones to just watch that.
I've got a reply to that kind of, um, maybe the way to do that is private the thing
and then tell everyone you know, to watch the thing.
I've been doing that.
Yeah.
And so that helps because you're being free advertising for them.
And maybe one of them will actually pay for it.
Maybe two of them will.
And then it'll be like I paid for it too.
As, as someone who occasionally tries to sell words, there is nothing as
infuriating as a publisher, publisher saying, but we pay you an exposure.
It's like fucking exposure doesn't pay for my food, homie.
That's fair.
You can pay me with money.
Don't get me wrong.
I totally agree.
And I don't, that's why I think that there's no ethical, like light side to
pirating things.
Like I, I shouldn't do it.
What I'm saying is that if there was an option to go buy it for approximately
what I'd pay to rent it from Amazon or to watch it on Apple TV, I would have.
Yeah.
Like I would pay 10 bucks for the DVD box.
May I suggest libraries who usually have up to date, like recent copies of books
and music and other media.
The thing is that you have to borrow it for a certain amount of time, maybe stay
on a wait list if it's really popular and that's it.
And libraries do always make sure at least a little bit of money gets
back to the creators.
Cool.
Not as much as if you would have bought it directly, but better than
pirate libraries are one of the major sources of income for people that make
things like particularly books, but you know, they, they buy a large
amounts of the DVD or copies of yeah, whatever your book is that you published.
We don't live in a universe right now.
Unfortunately, where I'm trying to make it anthropic again for fun.
Where I can like direct support content that I like when there's more than a
few people involved.
Like I like some podcasts and some other online created stuff where I can shoot
them a few bucks a month and enjoy their things and guilt free.
Being like, you know what, that's absolutely worth 10 bucks a month.
Let me send Doof Media some money so I can keep, make sure they keep doing what
they do because I really enjoy consuming it.
But I can't do that for, like I said, I don't want to pay for HBO and be locked
in for some stupid contract.
I want to watch Game of Thrones and nothing else, right?
So it would be nice if I could just buy them for three bucks an episode.
Well, part of the problem is that a show like Game of Thrones takes a huge
amount of upfront capital for all the, I mean, not just the cameras, but also
the sets, the costumes, the writers, you got to pay all the actors, all the
people working, you know, behind the cameras, the grips, that's a lot of money.
And you can put out a Patreon for when you have already created something and
people are like, Hey, I like this thing.
I'll give you money.
But if it takes like a million dollars to get the thing going before you even
have the first episode, it's going to be really hard getting people to sign up for.
Yeah, I'll give you some money now for something that maybe I'll see that might
be good in the future, or maybe it's going to turn out to be another one of those.
What's a shitty show?
The Friends has spinoffed Joey.
Yeah, maybe it's another Joey.
Uh, this is a really good topic, and we could probably keep talking about it for
a pretty long time, and we should probably get back on our other topic.
I tried to, I tried to veer us back by saying we don't live in a universe where
I can direct, consume guilt free things.
But yeah, you needed to put more emphasis on we don't live in a universe where
like this is a segue.
Let's hard steer back, back on track.
Yes, back track you turn.
So I guess basically the anthropic principle is asking how much evidence can
we take from the fact that we are here to observe something.
Um, and I think just has come down very solidly on the side of that is almost
no evidence at all.
That was exactly one piece of evidence.
Would you say in a rational sense that's asking a wrong question?
Like this isn't a question where you can even imagine a coherent answer.
I think a question of how likely is the human race to survive the cold war is
partially answered by the fact that we did survive it.
Maybe like everyone keeps saying how unlikely it is that we made it through
the cold war and maybe it was really unlikely, but maybe based on human
psychology, actually usually when put in these situations, most human races
would make it through the cold war because most people don't want to
wipe out the entire human race.
And who knows, maybe it's, we should have lots of nuclear weapons because
it's really unlikely anyone's ever going to use them in a, in a large
enough capacity to wipe out the world.
You had me at the first half.
I wouldn't say that we should make it easier and lower the bar for someone
who's not afraid to destroy the world to do it.
Um, but there were other almost end of world scenarios like the Cuban
missile crisis could have been, could have ended in a large scale war.
Um, it turns out that however unlikely it was to survive the last century, it
wasn't impossible because we did.
Do we, should we not necessarily venerate people like Stanislaw Petrov as much?
I mean, uh, if it was pretty likely we were going to make it through anyway.
The thing that we do is we have a near miss.
We notice the near miss, take a moment to celebrate the fact that there was a
near miss and people who are involved and then say, okay, now this could have
gone badly.
Let's think of the ways it could have gone badly and then come up with
strategies for how to mitigate that in the future.
