The muggles I get, like they get before to move.
I mean, the supervillains.
Why not go two towns over where there is no mass crusader
and just go commit crimes, you know, two states over.
That would be a good Batman thing.
Maybe they're in it for the challenge.
They want to fight Batman.
Yeah, they're all insane, which is why they exist.
Has anyone written a rationalist Batman yet?
Have you read The Masculine Mongoose?
Yeah.
Okay, it's not a rationalist Batman, but it's really fun.
I remember Alexander Wales at one point said that he was thinking
about doing a rationalist Batman, but never got there.
Alexander, if you ever get the impulse,
I will support you on Patreon to do that.
I keep occasionally thinking about doing a rationalist Dragon Ball.
Oh, that could be fun.
Not like, I mean, there's still going to be magic and stuff in it,
but more of just like give all the characters a level up in intelligence
because it's a show that most of the plot is driven forward
by somebody holding the idiot ball.
And basically all characters kind of holding the idiot ball at all times.
Like they're just, you know, solution to everything is punch it harder.
What do you expect?
Even when like the...
It's a show about punching things hard.
So the thing that I would do is, and if anyone also wants to steal this idea,
it might have even been done, like I might do it someday.
But Bulma, the Dragon Ball show is like, for people that aren't familiar,
there's like a little kid with magic powers and a girl who's like the scientist,
the daughter of the scientist who invented capsule technologies,
basically like you can stick stuff into a pokeball or whatever and some other shit.
And she's really intelligent too.
And she meets this kid and they go on adventures
and they eventually like levels up to the scale of universes,
fighting universes in martial arts tournaments.
But like the fact that Bulma's a genius scientist is never used.
And like the fact that, yeah, there's any other solution to anything
other than punching things hard enough that you start glowing in your hair
turns a different color because you've punched things hard enough
that you can now punch things harder.
It's a cool power.
I'm picturing like Superman throwing a baseball like relatively at six speeds.
And is that what makes them change colors in Dragon Ball Z?
Or is that just like literally the magic powers?
It's part of magic powers.
It's the color of their cheat or whatever.
It's funny that like, I do like that the author is self aware sometimes
and will make fun of himself while writing it.
Like, I've discovered Super Saiyan Blue.
What does it do?
It makes you blue.
Is that it?
I think of more powerful too, but mostly look at my hair.
Like it's almost like word for word kind of one of the things that happened in the show.
They will occasionally also point out that the main character, the good guy Goku,
who's like the adult, the little kid in original Dragon Ball grew up to be,
like one of his defining characteristics is happy, go lucky.
And other is just constantly needs to be challenged in battle.
And that like he has also been responsible for probably causing a lot of the conflict
in the show because other people are wandering around the universe looking for somebody strong
to fight and conquer.
And the fact that he's there on earth means that like earth is getting targeted to be destroyed
more often.
So like they actually address that in universe.
And like they're like, hey, Goku, like maybe it would be cool if you didn't like just care
so much about fighting evil things that you sometimes get bored and pick a fight with
like evil space warlords.
And he's like, haha, nah, I can't not do that.
Has anyone suggested that he live on a planet without a large population?
Like he likes living on earth and he's okay.
He's like, I can punch things.
So what does it matter?
So far he's had a pretty good track record of being able to punch everything.
Fucking anthropic principle.
He's punched everything so far.
And no one's strong enough to coerce him to live on another planet.
They're like, hey, why don't you fuck off for a while?
Because we're sick of almost being killed every other month.
Another really great joke.
We didn't see the anime of all the universes where he died.
No, another really great joke that the show does is also that earth has the most delicious food
in the universe.
So there's a lot of allies who have incentive to keep earth around because earth like has ramen,
for example.
And a bunch of other planets have like just really boring food.
And they're like, oh man, that's that planet that has the really strong guy.
But and it's also got instant ramen and like fruit salad.
Have you tried fruit salad?
Is it that hard to grow fruit trees?
Like I'm not I'm not a I'm not a scientist, but I got to think ramen is not that hard to make
in the scale of like, you know, universal technology.
Well, it definitely is like playing, you know, it's laugh shading that.
It sounds like a really funny show, but aren't there like 900 episodes?
Oh, God, they're yeah, it's it's been most of them are filler.
My entire life at this thing has been ongoing.
And I like, oh my God.
Yeah, it sounds great.
I don't think I'll be able to get into it.
Maybe I'll watch like an hour long appreciation video that summarizes more of this stuff later.
Definitely.
It drags that some of the movies in the more recent show are kind of worth watching,
but even they are like very slow paced.
I've got a quick plug.
Oh, so we're gonna say I was just gonna say we should wrap up and move on.
Oh, yeah.
Then before we do that.
Okay, this is this is a rationally adjacent subject.
Okay.
There was like a one off sequel chapter to Death Note that came out,
I think just like in the last month.
Did you by chance read it?
Not the one off.
No, you should.
Okay.
I actually didn't read the manga either.
I just saw the anime.
Yeah.
If you saw that, you're close enough.
The manga is a lot better.
But it always is.
I mean, but I really liked the anime a lot.
Maybe it's because I saw it first,
but also like seeing it with color and music was actually a lot of fun.
Yeah.
The only thing you get more of in the manga is their intro theme in the second season.
It's always an art downgrade from manga to animation.
Yeah.
But I mean, the art.
Yeah.
I mean, the art downgrade is there too.
But like as far as just I liked the the shading, like again,
the different color cells they could do for different things.
They did like the five minutes of just a character thinking.
I think somewhat engaging.
All you get in the manga is more.
I kind of refuse to say manga.
I will, but I can.
It's like you go to a Mexican restaurant in order a quesadilla or quesadilla, right?
Like if you like, or if you go to a French restaurant in order,
in order a croissant and not a croissant, right?
Do you also call it Japan animation?
No, I call it anime.
Okay.
Yeah.
I find for it what I.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Anime.
I'm fine calling it either way,
but I'm not is that if someone were to correct me,
how would bring up my like,
hold do you do order a croissant when you go to a pastry shop?
No, you order a croissant.
You say it how you say it in your dialect.
But I'm fine with anyone saying it with a soft A or a long A.
We have an interesting listener feedback about that same topic.
Oh, no.
I just I'd never heard man, manga.
Manga, manga, manga.
I'd never heard manga before.
I'd always heard people say manga.
So that's because that's how that's how if you're phonetically saying it,
that's how it's A said in Japanese.
And Japanese written in English is awesomely consistent,
where a single A is pronounced every time.
So like, it's not like in English where it's like guess or fuck you
when you're trying to figure out the rules or like other languages
which have those sounds,
but then have some kind of like signifier that this is a soft E
like two dots over it or under it.
Like, yeah, in English is just like,
I don't know.
You just got to memorize how words you said.
Exactly.
I'm so glad it was my first language.
I said manga growing up or I guess as my first introduction to it
because it's spelled a lot like mango.
And that's how you say mango.
That said, all you get more of in the manga,
manga is longer thought out stretches.
But there's plenty of those in the shot.
They're possibly different too.
They sped it up a bit for they did.
Slowed it down a bit.
Yeah, the they did some, you know, adaptations for animation
that made sense during that.
Yeah, no, I'm only saying that.
That's great.
I want to check it out in either format.
It's better than it's better written down, but it never isn't.
So that said, there's a one off chapter that has basically the setup is.
I don't want to spoil it, but it's another it's almost like a fun.
I could put it to this way.
If you had the death note and you wanted to find a way to make it to use it to make your life a lot
better, how would you do it without killing anybody?
Isn't the only thing it does kill people?
Oh, no, it was other things.
So don't don't spoil it if you've read this.
