that you're a human and you're thinking about things in terms of the way
humans think of things as causes and causes and it being important to
discover why this thing is like that.
So you can determine the strategies of your enemies or friends and do
political things because that's how they, we evolved and what we do.
I'm not thinking about causes at all.
I'm thinking about, is there infinite universes or just one?
And I mean, like, but, but the fact that that's the thing that bothers
you, um, that you can't just say, I don't know, I don't have enough evidence
yet.
And then like, there's other questions that we could be working on in the
meantime, means that you're obsessed about this idea of causality.
I very much don't know, but I don't think it's a 50-50 coin toss.
Why not?
Because I think the, it is extremely unlikely that there is only one universe
with these constants, if the constants can be anything.
But how do you know that?
How do you know that it's unlikely you don't have any evidence that it is or isn't?
If the constants can be anything, then it is unlikely just because they can be
anything.
And for them to be these particular numbers is, you know,
but unlikely things happen all the time.
Yeah, of course.
It's the whole like, I'm just saying it's incredibly unlikely.
So like pretending that there's like 36 knobs that can be tuned to any one of
a hundred values, they are, every, every knob happens to be turned somewhere on
the scale of one to 100 that allows for the universe as we know it.
Right.
So just per that, if that's just a complete dice roll, that sounds unlikely.
You've got one in a hundred, 36 times.
Um, so I see, what is the likelihood that those dials would be somewhere?
Exactly.
That had to be somewhere.
I think for me, maybe I, I never did any formal research on anthropic principle
or then like coming across it in the form of fine tuning arguments and stuff.
Um, I've never seen anyone trying to leverage it to do actual work, the way
that we've been doing for the last hour.
Oh, I've seen that a lot.
Oh, see, I, I think that's, I'm finding it really interesting, but I'm unprepared for it.
So like, I, I've always just seen it as this like, oh yeah, I guess that, um, again,
so like using the example of the Celsius scale.
You know, if someone's surprised by that, they're wrong to be surprised
because this was on purpose or it is actually like, oh, okay.
Yeah.
I wonder what that would be like.
Right.
Um, we happen to live in a universe where, uh, um, I mean, it's possible that
there's some underlying physical law that makes it so all constants have to be
exactly what they are in any universe, in which case having only one universe is fine.
But there, I don't see any reason to believe that.
And given that the constants, assuming that the constants could have been anything,
it's extremely unlikely that we're not in an infinite universe scenario.
I think since I already thought we're in an infinite universe scenario, that's sort
of my, my fine, that's why I'm fine with that sort of assumption.
And maybe that's because that was put forward as a, one of the possible answers
to this in a book I read in 2004 or something.
But I feel like, I feel like there was a short part of a chapter in the God
illusion on the anthropic principle.
And if you already believe in an infinite universe's hypothesis, that should change
your, um, change at least some of your thinking.
Like you should think that cryonics is a wonderful idea because no matter how
unlikely it is in at least one universe, it'll happen.
I'm, and you might even want to be depending on how much you care about other
universes and your loved ones and other universes, you might be willing to take
extravagant risks for big payoffs because, well, in most universes, you'll die,
but in the one that you actually remember and keep living in, you have a huge payout.
Yeah.
I'm hopeful that I live in a universe where chronics ends up working and I'm
preserved correctly.
Right.
Like the fact that I'm signed up increases my chances of being cryo reversed at
some point, right?
From zero to not zero.
Right.
I mean, so like I could still get burned in a fire, in which case, even the fact
that I'm signed up won't save me.
So like I could still die in a way that keeps me from being put on ice, which is
a drag.
I certainly don't want that to happen.
I mean, you've thought of one of the things that could harm you, death, and
then you've taken one of the steps that you could to possibly mitigate it.
So you've adjusted things slightly more in your favor, but you don't know how
much because you don't know, you don't know what you don't know.
Yeah.
I try to tweak the knobs in a way that lean towards me living forever, um, to
the extent, especially to the extent that it's very easy.
That's the best you can do for now.
You don't know it.
You don't know.
So you just try to mitigate against the forces that you do know, and that you
have some evidence for and don't worry about it.
And like arguably cryonics isn't easy compared to like, you know, more people
are killed by vending machines every year than sharks.
And so because of that, I don't rock vending machines.
Like that's a lot.
It's a lot easier to not rock.
It's a lot easier to not rock vending machines than it is to sign up for cryonics.
Right.
Um, so like I have taken that somewhat not, uh, easy step towards trying
to increase my longevity, um, it's not as hard as people think it is.
That said, I should plug.
If I haven't before Rudy Hoffman wrote a book called the affordable immortal,
which you can find on Amazon.
And he was nice enough to send me a copy of when I changed my policy with him,
which I don't know if I ever properly thanked him for.
So I'll send an email saying, I thank you and told all my listeners on my
podcast that I do to check out this book.
Um, we will link the book, but also you don't necessarily need the book.
A lot of times you can just follow a few instructions online.
I know both the cryonics Institute and Alcor have instructions online, but
you can follow and get signed up.
Oh yeah.
This isn't necessarily an instruction manual.
It's also just a case.
It's more information about it.
Yeah.
It's just more information.
Like if you think that, oh, well, no, it's way, it's way too expensive.
It's way out of my, my, my ability to do this.
It might not be.
Gotcha.
Um, I mean, generally, if you can, if you can spare 30 bucks a month, you can
totally afford to sign up for cryonics, um, depending on how healthy you are.
Unfortunately, my parents are older and not super healthy.
Getting them a life insurance policy that would pay out for a
cryonics will be substantially expensive.
Um, that said, it would probably be easier to get them to save up $110,000 each, uh,
in cash and just, you know, have this ready to pay for out of their
estate rather than out of their life insurance.
Yeah.
Um, wouldn't be easy, easy, but it might be easier than getting them on a $700
a month life insurance policy or something.
Right.
So.
So real quick, given that you, I thought about this sometimes given that you
believe in infinite universes and therefore you believe there are many
universes where you are dead due to the truck hitting you in the head or whatever.
How do you feel about those other universes?
I generally don't feel about them.
Like I, I'm not trying to dodge the question.
Like in the, in the circumstances where I actually think about it and I'm
confronted with it, like I said, I do feel diminished in the, uh, the multi
dimensional light cone of that crosses the, whatever you call the thing, the
multiverse is a part, you know, the universes are a part of multiverse is fine.
Um, the number of Stevens across times went down.
Yeah.
Um, that's a bomber.
Yeah.
I mean, it's kind of fun in that sense, like a fun, like fuck you sort of
thing to like the utilitarian perspective.
Like I can, I can make the universe an amazing place here locally.
Um, like it, it would be a drag.
I, and I'm sure Peter Singer's written on this, having been a philosopher, but
like if you solve animal welfare, the universe is still the multiverse is
still aggregately full of suffering.
Even if you save every cow on earth, um, that doesn't mean that you shouldn't do
it, right?
Like the multiverse is somehow still a slightly happier place because you've
done that you could even like, I mean, I lean utilitarian still.
So I tend to catch my, I tend to frame my arguments that way, but you don't
even have to think about it in terms of like the amount of happiness in the
universe, right?
Yeah.
Um, I, I think that the kinds of societies with people that are caring
about those sorts of things also are people that it all comes back on
happiness, like whether you're utilitarian or not, like.
I believe the term for how many, just to interject quickly, that how many
use there are across the multiverse is measure that your measure was decreased
in that incident, even though you personally lived, your measure across
the multiverse has was decreased.
There was a movie in nearly 2000s called the one.
Yeah, I remember that with Jet Lee.
Yeah.
And that was fun.
So whenever there were some 30 something universes, it wasn't, it was
far from infinite.
It was in the, it was in the dozens.
And whenever one version was at least hundreds, because at the very end, we
see hundreds of him all fighting it out.
Oh, I thought it was only like 36 or something.
That was all that we saw, but at the end we saw, yeah, a lot of hymns.
Nice.
Yes.
So the premise is that whenever one of you dies across the multiverse, the
like essence slash power slash literal physical strength is transferred to the
survivors.
Maybe that was other, maybe that was other criminals and not hymns.
That might have been other criminals.
Yeah, yeah.
Cause I vaguely remember because the one was he killed off everyone else.
Yeah, to get all the power.
And I think at the end, so like then it's basically one guy universe hopping,
killing himself in other universes.
And then like it's down to him and the other version of him that doesn't really
know why he's a lot stronger and faster than he used to be.
And then this guy's trying to kill him.
And I think it ends with him like shutting that guy down in a non-lethal way.
Um, spoiler alert, maybe 20 years old.
So.
Got a question.
