They look like little pterodactyls and they're attracted to noise
and they come peck your eyes out and rip you apart if you make it.
If you make it sounds less cute.
Yes. Oh, is that the bird box?
No, that's where if you see something, it never shows it, you kill yourself.
You probably see what you probably see in Bird Box is this terrible movie
that's a rip off of a quiet place.
And then you then you have this
unresistible impulse to play your brains out.
Point is, isn't that movie the quiet place rip off that I can't vote it's called?
The monsters come from this whole underground.
They're like just mining or something.
And all these birds come swarming out of there.
So to say it's just monsters.
Well, these things are said in the movie to have somehow evolved
because they must have.
And it's unclear what they were eating or how they like how they how they
how they were there in numbers enough to decimate life on earth.
My thing is, I don't care like about the specifics of your backstory,
unless you thought of something really cool.
If you're like just trying to say, but people are going to be like,
oh, man, where are these bird monsters coming from?
And oh, but that explanation doesn't make sense.
Like, you know, it's not right.
I think that like as even as a rationalist,
yeah, exactly, going into a movie, there's a certain higher level
of disbelief that I'm willing to suspend.
And I'm OK if they don't spend too long on trying to make fake explanations for stuff.
They just go like, I don't know.
The science lab exploded, chemicals leaked.
Now you've got this thing.
And then now now there's the cool stuff that goes on with the plot.
But the premise is there's a big monster.
But when they take like a really big amount of time and they did
like maybe 40 minutes of Wikipedia research on a couple of science terms,
and then they try to spin it into a like, this is a plausible thing
that could happen if quantum things do this thing.
And they've got like doctors in lab coats for some reason,
even though they're physicists and they don't need a lab coat.
Like. And that's the reason I liked us because they didn't do that.
It was just mere dimension underground.
You're just going to make yourself look like an idiot if you try to like
like I keep remembering Prometheus when it was like, this is how biologists work.
Right. Yeah.
Hey, look, I found I think I found life.
I'm going to poke it.
Dude, and Prometheus were like primordial earth.
They seed the earth with these these genes.
And that is why we're so look just like the aliens on the other planet.
And it's been 10 million years of, you know, divergent evolution.
I love when non science people like do again, 10 minutes of Wikipedia research.
And they think that they understand a concept enough to be like,
it would be so cool if my backstory was this thing that actually,
if you did 20 minutes of Wikipedia research, you would know, made no sense.
Like just stop doing that.
We'd be closer related genetically to strawberries
than we would be to those aliens after that much time.
Consult a scientist if you're going to put if you're going to put science
in your thing and then make it a big deal like part of your movie.
And if you're not willing to do that, then just be like,
I don't know, science stuff happened, hand wavy things.
Now, now there's a monster.
Yes, I didn't finish my I didn't actually finish my thought.
I got I got sidetracked on on us.
And that's it. I'm told I love the movie and I'm fine with science magic in movies.
I just didn't like how they pretended like it wasn't magic.
Yes, exactly. Like in in Get Out, it was magic.
And it was like that was awesome. It was scary. It was great.
It wasn't magic.
They used a science chair with like a surgery and a laser.
If they had said this is how if they had said this is how it works.
And I knew for a fact that there's no possible way could work that way.
Then it would take me out of the movie like it did with us.
That's all. So the reason I brought up
us in the first place was that because I brought up how unlikely it was
that the parents would copulate the exact time, even if they're mirroring
the emotions of the people on the surface and copulating at the same time.
Again, you're thinking that they're different people that the same.
It's a mirror dimension. They're the same.
Let me finish my thought.
OK, my point is that the odds of me personally existing are infinitesimal.
That's the point I was trying to make.
OK, and I was making that through the point that us is impossible.
Oh, OK.
So the movie us makes no sense because the odds of any
fertilized combination coming about is very small.
And that's true going back generations.
Yeah. And so if, you know, if we were on the clock and.
Yeah, a lot of causality stuff on a very micro scale
that you wouldn't be able to replicate like the butterfly effect thing.
Like just molecules flying around the area slightly differently
in this other universe would make things significantly different.
So there's no way a mirror where it could actually exist
unless it was magic.
There could be literally a butterfly involved that ruined
the intercom that like that slightly delayed or prolonged the intercourse
of my great, great, great, great, great grandparents.
And then I would be a different combination of genes, right?
And I hate when that happens.
Butterfly landed on a stick just at the right time.
No. So slow motion, butterfly.
It leaves flapping.
My point is, is that the anthropic principle would like I could ask
why am I me and not somebody else?
But that is the sort of question that you can ask from anybody.
I'll any anybody's point of view.
Yeah, I think. Well, I think that's a dumb question.
That's not the anthropic principle question.
No, that is. It is the question.
All right. Well, here I have.
Why are things question work?
I have an anthropic lens to view history through,
whether or not it's the wikipedia page on of Antwerp principle or not.
It's the same for me.
It's the same sort of of lens of understanding the universe.
Like things are this way because they haven't to be this way.
I have a fairy tale from Les wrong,
which I think will hopefully clear up things because I think
I've done a very poor job of describing the anthropic principle.
Then let's do it. OK, this is an anthropic principle fairy tale.
Thank you to nominal on August 28th of 2012 for posting this.
A robot is going on a one shot mission to a distant world
to collect important data needed to research a cure for a plague
that is devastating the earth.
When the robot enters hyperspace,
it notices some anomalies in the engine's output,
but it's too late to get the engines fixed.
The anomalies are the sort that when similar anomalies
have been observed in other engines,
25 percent of the time it indicates a fatal problem,
such that the engine will explode virtually every time it tries to jump.
25 percent of the time it has been a false positive
and the engine doesn't explode at all.
It's a perfectly fine engine and 50 percent of the time
it's a serious problem, but not a automatically lethal one
so that each time there's a jump, there's a 50 50 chance
the engine will explode.
Anyway, the robot goes through the 10 jumps
to reach the distant world and the engine does not explode.
The look, sorry.
Unfortunately, the jump coordinates for the mission were a little off
and the robot is in a bad position for collecting data.
It could try another jump.
If the engines don't explode,
the extra data it collects will save many lives.
If the engine does explode, though,
the earth will get no data at all
because this FTL radio that they're using only works one time.
So how do you program the robot?
Do you program your robot to believe that since it worked 10 times,
the anomaly was probably false positive and it should make the jump?
Or should it send the data back that it has right now?
Do you make it believe that due to the anthropic principle,
it should disregard the evidence of the other 10 jumps
because obviously the universes were the robot blew up.
Those it's not here to make this decision.
And it still has a good chance of blowing up.
People's lives are in the balance.
I don't think the anthropic principle applies here.
Why not?
Because you have prayers.
Yeah, but the only evidence that he has
is that he's still alive after 10 jump or it.
I guess I don't know why I gendered the robot.
Sorry.
But you have the evidence of how often this kind of failure causes the engine.
So you just crunch the math on the 25, 25 versus 50.
The importance of delivering the data you have now versus the no data
versus the goal and then you calculate based on that.
And decide like squinting at it with your values is the risk worth it.
So basically you completely abandoned the anthropic principle.
Yeah, just say because the anthropic principle isn't like it's not a thing.
It's not it's not a I still don't think that it's a question that you can actually ask.
I think that we as humans care about causality
in a way that doesn't actually make sense in the way that physics works
because we are things that do things that cause things.
And we've got some kind of machinery that crunches so hard
to try to figure out the root cause of everything that we look at.
But some things don't have root causes in the way that like matters to us
or that matters at all or that even makes sense.
That's my long, weird answer to that.
OK, I feel like disregarding the anthropic principle for the
for a limit phrase that for the for the robot to make the decision to say,
you know what, anthropically, I've made it so far.
I'm probably good to do as many times as I want
because I'll continue to persist in the universe where I don't blow up.
Um, that seems like with me running with my observation
that I haven't been killed yet to, like, I don't know,
try and dodge bullets like Neo and the Matrix and be like, well,
I'll be the one that makes it out.
Yeah, like that sounds like a really bad idea.
OK, so you would not jump.
Um, I the only thing that's different is that
like from my analogy of trying to, I don't know, whatever, dodge bullets
or do something else like that has a one in a thousand chance of me surviving.
I like, I don't take those risks because I don't want to die.
Despite my weird, I don't not even believe
just like this weird idea in my head that I might never die.
Right. You've never died yet.
All evidence points to the fact that you never will.
