Yeah, thank you for having me.
It's a real pleasure to have a chance,
especially to a computer science audience.
My original training was in computer science before biology.
So I think we have some interesting things
to talk about today.
And afterwards, if you want to find any of the data sets,
the papers, the software,
all of that is here at this website.
So here are the main points
that I'm going to try to transmit today.
First of all, I'm going to talk about agents
and unconventional embodiments.
So we're going to go beyond the typical thing
that people think about when they think about intelligence,
which is brains and brain-y animals.
And we're going to talk about problem solving
in some unconventional spaces.
With all of this is a contribution
to the field of diverse intelligence,
which is this emerging area
at the intersection of computer science,
biology, and behavioral science.
And part of the message here
is that neuroscience isn't really about neurons.
It's about scaling cognition.
And that has, I think, many implications
for machine learning and AI
that often tries to look at the brain as its inspiration.
I'm going to use the control of anatomy
as the example of a collective intelligence,
specifically the collective intelligence of cells
that navigate anatomical morphospace.
And I'm going to tell you that electrical networks,
specifically bioelectrical networks,
carry the computational medium
of that collective intelligence.
And this has all kinds of interesting applications
in biomedicine.
And at the end, I'm going to show you some novel creatures,
some synthetic proto-organisms,
and talk about a very large option space
of new bodies and new minds,
which the young people in the audience
are going to be living with over the next few decades.
So life used to be pretty easy.
People had this view of the world.
This is an old, very kind of well-known painting
of Adam naming the animals in the Garden of Eden.
And it was simple because we knew
there were discrete kinds,
and there were very specific kinds of animals.
And here's Adam, and he's different from all of these.
And so that was easy.
We kind of knew what everything was.
And in particular, there's one other interesting thing here,
which is that in this mythology,
it's up to Adam to name the animals.
It wasn't God or the angels
that were able to name these animals.
The human had to do it.
And I think that's actually pretty profound
because as I'll show you towards the end of the talk,
I think it's going to be on us to name,
or more accurately, to learn the true nature
of all kinds of new beings.
So it used to be pretty simple to know what a human was.
But then with the advent of developmental biology,
where we now realize that we actually emerge,
self-construct from a single cell,
and through evolutionary biology,
where we now see that, again, we emerge,
we started as a unicellular kind of life form,
and eventually became this kind of a human.
So we have this vertical axis of transformation,
but also there's a horizontal axis,
where both through biological modifications
and through technological modifications,
there's a spectrum of human-adjacent possibilities.
And that's because at every layer of organization,
we can augment evolved biology
with various designed or engineered materials.
And so that means that we really need frameworks
to recognize, create, and ethically relate
to a really very diverse set of intelligences
that can be very different
from the conventional ones we're used to,
in terms of how they got here or how they're made.
And so we need a framework to understand
not only familiar creatures,
like let's say primates and birds,
and maybe an octopus and things like that,
but also all kinds of unusual creatures,
like colonial organisms, like ant swarms and so on,
and synthetic life forms, AIs,
whether software or hardware,
and someday maybe even exobiological agents.
And so I, of course, I'm not the first person
to try for such a framework.
Here's Norbert Wiener and colleagues
that already were trying to lay down a continuum,
a cybernetic continuum from passive matter
all the way up to human and above,
sort of second order metacognition and so on.
And so we wanna develop frameworks like this
to help us understand what all these things have in common,
and to move experimental work forward.
And I work with something I call the spectrum
of persuadability, and it's basically this idea
that there are numerous different kinds of systems
all the way from very simple mechanical ones
to homeostats and various kinds of animals
and learning devices, and then of course,
human and whatever's above that.
And the idea is that at different places
along this continuum, there are different tools
that you might use to interact with that system
from hardware rewiring to modifying set points
to learning and training,
and then various kinds of high level communications.
And what's important is that when you're faced
with a new system, it's not enough to have
philosophical feelings or preconceptions
about where you think it has to fit on the spectrum.
You actually have to do experiments.
You have to see which one of these paradigms,
these sets of tools are going to be appropriate,
and you don't know ahead of time.
And so one question you might ask is,
where do collections of body cells fit in?
Are cells more like this, or are they like this,
or something else?
And we'll talk about that today.
And that's important because all of us made this journey
from a single unfertilized egg cell,
so a quiescent oocyte, to one of these amazing morphologies,
even something like this, a human.
And it's critical to note
that this process is smooth and continuous.
There is no magic time point or there's no lightning flash
that at some point at a particular time
turns the physics and chemistry of the early cell
into what you might think of as true cognition,
that there is no such flip over.
So all of this is smooth and continuous,
and we really have to understand how that scaling
of competencies from here to here works.
And, but okay, so that's already a little destabilizing
this idea that actually we slowly metamorphose
from a fairly simple chemical physical system,
but then at least we're a unified kind of intelligence.
We're not like ants or bees or something
that maybe is a kind of collective intelligence.
So a lot of people feel that we're some kind
of a unified true intelligence,
and this is maybe these things
that have some kind of collective intelligence.
But actually all intelligence is collective intelligence
because we are all made of parts.
And Renee Descartes really liked the pineal gland
in the brain because there's only one of them.
And he felt that this unified human experience
had to have one representative in the brain,
not multiple.
But if he had had access to good microscopy,
he would have seen that actually the pineal gland
is full of cells and each cell is full of all of this stuff.
And there isn't one of anything in the brain,
everything is made of parts.
And in particular, we are collective intelligences.
This is what we're made of cells,
a kind of a gentile material.
And this is a unicellular organism.
This is called a lacrimaria.
So it's one cell, there is no brain,
there's no nervous system,
but it has all these interesting competencies
and problem solving in its own scale.
So it handles its metabolic, physiological,
anatomical goals all on its own.
And the thing about organisms like this
is that we really have to think about
how they scale up into something larger.
So here's an experiment where you train a rat
to press a lever and receive a reward.
Now, the key is that no individual cell
in this creature has both experiences.
In other words, the cells at the bottom of the feet
interact with the lever,
the cells in the gut get the delicious reward,
no individual cell has both experiences.
And yet this associative learning,
this idea that there is an owner of this information
that pressing the lever gives you a reward,
is this emergent thing called a rat.
And the idea is that in order to do this,
to figure out, so actually who owns this associative memory,
you need to have a kind of cognitive glue,
you need to bind the individual cells together
and do a sort of, be able to do a credit assignment
