and functions that will survive there
and everything else died out.
And so that's why it's long, you know, eons of selection.
So what we decided to do was to make novel organisms
that never existed before.
And we decided to ask, can we make this from scratch?
You know, how much plasticity is there?
What are cells going to do
when you reboot their multicellularity?
Where do novel goals come from?
And I'll also do a disclosure here
because this is work with Josh Bongard
at the University of Vermont.
And we have a company called Fauna Systems.
And so Doug Blackiston is the biologist in my lab
who does all of this work.
And what we basically did was take the skin cells
and these are here, these skin cells off of the top
of an early frog embryo and we set them aside here.
And you might ask, we just dissociated them
and set them aside and you might ask, what will happen?
Well, they could just die.
They could spread out, crawl away from each other.
They could do nothing.
They could form a nice flat two-dimensional monolayer
like cell culture.
In fact, what they do is, I'll play this again,
what they do is if you sort of, if you dissociate these cells
and just kind of pipette them here,
what they'll actually do overnight is they coalesce
into this little ball and the flashes
that you're seeing are, is calcium signaling.
And this little ball starts to swim.
We call these Xenobots because Xenopus lavus
is the name of the frog
and we call them bio bots.
We think it's a biorebotics platform.
So they have little hairs on their surface that they wave
and they row against the water.
The hairs are normally used to move mucus
down the side of the frog,
but these guys have used it for swimming.
They can go in circles.
They can patrol back and forth like this.
They have all kinds of group behaviors.
You can see here, these guys are interacting
with each other.
These ones are taking a rest.
This was one that was going kind of on a long journey here.
Here's one navigating a maze.
So you can see it swims down here.
It's going to take this corner
without hitting the opposite wall.
So it takes the corner and then at this point,
for some reason it turns around
and goes back where it's came from.
They have no neurons,
but if you, if you look,
if you image their calcium signaling,
which calcium is basically a readout
of cellular computations,
you will see that there's tons of activity
and you can apply and as we are,
all kinds of information theory metrics
to ask are the cells talking to each other?
Are these two bots talking to each other?
What's the information processing that's going on here?
But there's no neurons.
They're just skin.
And they also regenerate.
So if you cut them almost in half,
they will, they will seal up.
So here you cut them almost in half and boom,
they seal up to their, to their new,
to their new Xenobot shape.
And one of the most amazing things they do,
and this was discovered by Sam Kriegman
in, it was a student in Josh Bongard's lab.
If you, so they were doing computer simulations
of these Xenobots running around
and they found that if you give them loose material
to work with, they do something quite interesting
in making these patterns.
So these are, these are patterns
that these bots etched overnight on this, on this dish.
In making these patterns,
they do something quite interesting.
And what they do is this,
this is basically Von Neumann's dream
of a robot that goes out and builds copies of itself
from loose materials it finds around.
So what we do is these, these little white things
are just skin cells that we sprinkle into the dish.
And we let the bots go at it.
What they do is they run around
and they collect the cells into a little ball
and they polish that little ball.
And that little ball,
because they're working with any gentile material,
these are not passive particles, these are cells.
And so for the same reason
that we were able to make Xenobots,
they are able to make the next generation of bots.
These little balls mature,
they become the next generation of bots.
And guess what they do?
They run around and collect cells
and make the next generation
and the next generation and so on.
So we call this kinematic self-replication.
And so it's just one of many novel competencies
that these guys have.
And so the amazing thing is that,
you know, you might ask like,
what does a frog genome encode exactly?
Well, what did evolution learn
when it developed the frog genome?
And we think,
but if we just look at normal development,
you just see that what it's learned
is to make this set of shapes.
So here's the developmental sequence
and then some tadpoles running around.
But actually it can do much more.
So here's a Xenobot,
here's a two and a half month old Xenobot.
It's turning into something.
I have no idea what it's turning into.
So the idea here is this,
what we've done is we haven't changed the genome.
We haven't put in any weird nanomaterials.
All we've done is liberate these skin cells
from their normal environment.
And we found out that their normal,
boring two-dimensional life as the skin
of the outer surface of the animal
is basically forced upon them
by the instructive interactions of their neighbors.
If you take them away from that,
now you get to see the native form
of what these cells really wanna do.
This is what they do
when nobody's telling them what else to do.
This is a reboot of their own goal states.
They do this,
which nobody had any idea that this was possible.
And you can't use evolutionary selection
as to explain this
because there's never been any Xenobots.
There's never been selection to be a good Xenobot.
This is something that we made for the first time here.
So of course the cells were in the evolutionary stream,
but they lived this life.
They never lived this life before.
So where did this kinematic cell for application come from?
It's a really deep question.
And as we're doing robotics,
now engineering for millennia
has been using passive materials
like wood and metal and so on.
But now we're moving to active matter
and even computational matter,
but the future is here.
It's an agential matter.
It's in materials that you don't control them bottom up
the way you do with this kind of hardware.
You take advantage of all these things
they already know how to do.
And we're working on some techniques for bioprompting,
which is basically to learn to program this kind of material
not by trying to force states as in synthetic biology,
but by training them and giving them various stimuli
that reset their set points
and then make to use all of this.
So the last thing I'm going to say is this.
Darwin had this great phrase,
endless forms, most beautiful.
And he was impressed with a variety of life.
And I just want to say that basically all of life on earth
in its magnificent variety
is all a tiny little corner
of the giant possibility space of new bodies and new minds.
And that's because life is incredibly interoperative
because evolution doesn't make specific
hardwired solutions generally.
It makes problem solving machines
that are open to novel configurations
and coherent action and novel embodiments.
Pretty much any combination of evolved cellular material
and the various kind of engineered machinery and software
is going to be some type of agent.
You've got hybrids and cyborgs
and all different kinds of things.
And all these things are look kind of way.
Actually many of these already exist and have been made
but they're going to be incredibly plentiful
in the coming decades.
And I don't think it's going to take very long.
You in this audience will be living in a world
with many other creatures
