that encapsulates.
So this very simple signal says build an eye here
and that encapsulates all of the gene expression changes
and the morphogenesis and everything else
that has to happen.
Not only that, it actually encapsulates
some really cool problem solving behavior.
For example, if you only inject a very few cells here
there's not enough of them to make this nice lens.
What they'll do is the same thing
that ants and termites do another collective intelligence.
What they'll do is they'll recruit their neighbors.
So the blue cells are the ones that we injected.
All of these other cells were recruited by these guys
because they realized there's not enough of them
to complete the task.
So all of those competencies are downstream
of a very simple subroutine call
that says build an eye here.
So I've shown you that you can change using these
by manipulating the bioelectric states
you can change the size of that goal-directedness.
So the size of the cognitive light on.
I've shown you that you can induce specific pattern memories
for example, eyes, we can do some other organs.
And now I wanna show you more specifically
what these pattern memories look like.
So again, this is our planarian
and I remind you that you can cut them into many pieces.
The record is something like 275, I believe.
And they're also immortal.
So they go on forever.
They just sort of continuously regenerate
anything that any cell that ages.
And one simple question you could ask
is if we cut these into pieces.
So here's a middle fragment.
We've cut off the head and the tail.
Here's the middle fragment.
Here's the gene expression
that anterior genes were up here at the head.
And you cut this middle fragment,
this middle piece 100% of the time
knows how many heads it's supposed to have.
One head, one tail.
So how does it know that?
And we actually found an electrical circuit
that we characterized that actually carried that information.
And this is what it looked like.
That piece has a pattern, an electrical pattern like this.
One head, one tail.
And so we then asked, well, what happens
if we change that pattern?
If we rewrite it, okay?
And what we did was use ion channel modifying drugs
to rewrite that pattern and make it look like this.
It's a little messy, of course, but do you get the idea?
Here it is.
This technology is very much still at early stages.
And so what you can do here is when you do that,
and this is the animal here,
when you do that, you cut that animal
and that piece will go on to make a two-headed worm.
Now this is really critical.
This electrical pattern is not a map of this two-headed guy.
This electrical pattern is a map of this one-headed,
normal looking and normal gene expression having worm.
That's because this is encoding.
I mean, I promised you when we talked about set points
in anatomical homeostasis,
I told you I was gonna show you where the memory is.
You are now looking at it.
This is literally where the pattern memory is.
We can now visualize it.
This fragment thinks that a normal worm
should have two heads.
It is, that is the representation
of what a correct worm looks like.
And that is what the cells build when they are injured.
And so a normal worm body can store up to one of two different
and no doubt many other things,
but this is what we know now,
two different representations
of what a correct planarian looks like.
And it's actually a counterfactual memory
because at this point, the body is not two-headed
and yet it has this pattern.
It's not what's happening now.
It's what you're going to do if you get injured in the future.
So it might be a sort of the evolutionary precursor
of this amazing mental time travel
that brains allow us to do.
Now I keep calling it a pattern memory
because if I cut these two-headed worms
into again and again in plain water,
they continue to generate two-headed animals.
So you might think that if I amputate
this ectopic secondary head
and the genetics are normal,
we haven't touched the genome,
then that hardware should just go back
and continue to make normal worms.
But that's not what happens.
The memory holds and it keeps the two-headed state.
And then of course we now know how to turn it back.
So this has all the basic properties of memory.
It's long-term stable, it's rewritable,
it has conditional recall and it has discrete behaviors,
discrete paths that it takes in anatomical morpho space.
And here you can see these two-headed worms hanging out.
So the question of how many heads a planarian
is supposed to have is not directly written in the genome.
The genome encodes some hardware
that when the juice is turned on, by default,
makes a pattern that says one head,
but it's reprogrammable.
This issue is reprogrammable such that
when we change that pattern, it holds.
And so what we're doing now is combining lots of ideas
from the dynamical systems theory of these electrical circuits
to some powerful paradigms in connection
as to machine learning to try to understand
how these electrical networks recall complex patterns
from partial stimuli, how they handle noise,
and basically how they navigate these energy landscapes.
Now it's not just about head number,
it's also, you can also do this with head shape.
In fact, you can get a nice,
this species with a nice triangular head shape
to make flat heads like a Pifalina
or round heads like an S-Mediterrania.
Not just the head shape, but actually the shape
of the brain and the distribution of stem cells
becomes just like these other species.
The distance between this and this
is about 100 to 150 million years of evolution.
So what that tells you is that this hardware,
without any genetic modification,
but purely with physiological stimuli,
is able to visit other attractors
that normally belong to other species.
So you're starting to see that plasticity.
In fact, you can get them to make shapes,
really crazy shapes that don't look like a planarian at all.
And that's because there's a huge latent morphaspace
around the normal kind of behavior,
physiological behavior of that system.
And you can push it to explore other areas
of that morphaspace.
So one of the things we're doing now
is trying to make a full stack model
all the way from the molecular biology of ion channels
to the simulation of the electrical circuits
to the large scale global body-wide patterns that appear.
And then ultimately,
and the kind of algorithmic view of this decision-making
so that you can actually,
it's a human understandable set of algorithms.
And so we wanna be able to integrate the whole thing.
And partly why we wanna do that
is for regenerative medicine applications.
So here's an example, frogs,
unlike salamanders do not regenerate their legs,
but we made a cocktail that after,
so normally after 45 days, you get nothing,
but we made a bioelectric cocktail
that triggers a leg regeneration within 45 days.
You already have some toes, you've got a toenail,
eventually a pretty respectable leg
that's touch sensitive and motile.
And the idea is that we're not micromanaging the process.
We're not telling the stem cells what to do.
We're not 3D printing anything.
We're telling the cells at the first 24 hours
after imputation, you should go down the leg-building path,
not the scarring path.
And after that, we don't touch the animal alone at all.
We leave them alone for a year and a half.
This whole thing will grow for 18 months
after only 24 hour application
because we're not trying to micromanage the process.
We're looking for subroutine calls.
We're looking for hooks into the native software
of the morphogenetic agent.
And so now, so having done this now,
we are in the process of trying to do this in mammals,
of course, we have to do a disclosure here,
Morphosuticals is a company that Dave Kaplan and I started
to take some of this technology
and push it into mammals.
So the last thing I wanna show you today
is a set of novel beings because I've told you
that these biological systems are exhibiting
problem-solving capabilities in anatomical space.
And when you ask, well, where do the set points come from?
How does it know what shape it should be?
Typically the answer is well evolution selection.
In other words, if you're gonna be a frog
living in a froggy environment,
then there's really only the small set of form
