and figure out what the different things
that happened in this body,
what do they mean and how do they go together.
And so our bodies in biology in general
is not just physically or structurally nested
from molecular networks to cells to organisms and so on,
but actually functionally,
we live with a multi-scale competency architecture.
Every layer of the body has its own ability
to solve problems in different spaces.
And they all cooperate and compete both laterally
within the layer and up and down through scales to interact.
And so we are all this kind of collective intelligence.
I wanna show you a few unusual examples
of biology that you may not have learned
about in biology class if you've had biology.
One is this, and it's the idea of transformation.
So you've got this caterpillar.
Caterpillar has a particular brain suitable for driving,
basically a soft-bodied robot.
There are no hard elements in the caterpillar,
so you can't push, right?
The controller can't push on any of the elements.
So there's this soft-body controller and it eats leaves
and it lives in basically a two-dimensional world.
Well, it has to transform into this completely different
type of creature, which is a hard body.
So it needs a different controller
that can now push on all these hard elements.
And this lives in the three-dimensional world.
It flies, and it doesn't eat leaves, it drinks nectar.
And in between, in order to convert the brain,
the brain is basically,
during this metamorphosis process,
the brain is basically disassembled.
So all the connections are broken,
most of the cells are killed off,
and it's reassembled here.
And the amazing thing is that it's now been shown
that the butterfly will retain memories
of what the caterpillar was trained on.
So now think, we don't have any hardware like that
that I'm aware of that you can store certain information
and completely chop up and mix around the substrate,
rearrange in a completely different organization,
and still the information is there, right?
So the robustness is kind of amazing.
In fact, it's even more amazing
because there's generalization here.
The caterpillar learns to associate a certain stimuli
with these leaves that it likes,
but the butterfly gets a completely different food
in that assay, it gets nectar.
And so it's not even the same,
it's not that you can learn that these triggers mean
that there's leaves, it's actually the notion is food.
So it's a general category,
which is the specifics are different here.
So there's also generalization going on.
So this kind of thing,
this persistence of information through bodily changes
can be even more impressive.
These are planaria, these are flatworms,
and flatworms have this amazing ability,
and I'll show you lots more about this in a minute,
that when you cut them into pieces, they regenerate.
So if you cut them in half,
the tail makes a new head, the head makes a new tail.
But what you can do is, and they have a true brain,
they have a true centralized brain,
the same neurotransmitters as you and I have,
and you can train them on a particular task.
So this idea that food will be found
where these bumpy spots are,
so it's called, that's place conditioning,
and then you cut off their heads.
Well, the tail sits there doing nothing
until the body regrows a new head,
and as soon as it regrows a new head,
it begins to exert behavior again,
and then you can find out
that it actually remembers the original information.
So if you've ever taken a philosophy one-on-one,
they do this, often they describe this idea
of a malfunctioning transporter
that builds an exact molecule for molecule copy of you,
somewhere else, and then it forgets to destroy the original,
and now there's two of you,
and which one is the real one?
Well, in this creature, you can do this many times,
and they can cut into many pieces,
and they all will have memories of the original.
So it's a really sort of profound philosophical issue,
and you can, both in the caterpillar butterfly case,
you can ask yourself,
what is it like to be a creature fundamentally changing,
changing everything, changing structure,
changing preferences, changing the world that you're in,
but still keeping your memories?
And it's an amazing phenomenon.
It makes human puberty seem like a really uneasy thing,
which it's, of course, not.
So the plasticity also exists in vertebrate.
So here's a tadpole of a frog of Xenopus lavas
here at the nostrils, here's the mouth,
and here's the spinal cord and the tail, and here's the gut.
So what you'll notice is there are no primary eyes here.
We prevented those from forming,
but we did put an eye on its tail,
and I'll show you in a minute how we do that.
But what happens is when you do that,
immediately those cells that make that eye,
they put out one optic nerve.
That optic nerve doesn't go all the way to the brain.
It synapses onto the spinal cord here,
and these animals can see.
We know because we made this machine
that basically trains them on visual, visual assays,
and they can see quite well.
And the amazing thing here is that
you don't need any evolutionary adaptation.
These animals, as soon as they're made like this,
they can already see.
You don't need multiple generations of adapting
to this new sensory motor architecture.
So this is what biology gives us.
It gives us this incredible multi-scale competency
architecture where the cells are able to deal with
huge amounts of injury, plasticity,
and keeping information around when the body is changing.
And so partly what we need to do to understand all of this
is to learn to detect in competency
in diverse problem spaces.
See, we're pretty good at, not great actually,
but pretty good as humans of recognizing
intelligence of medium-sized objects
moving at medium speeds through three-dimensional space.
So birds, primates, maybe an octopus, things like that.
We can sort of recognize intelligent behavior.
But as soon as you get to things that are very small
or very large or very slow or very fast
or operate in other spaces,
we're really not very good at noticing that
as intelligence at all.
And that's because mostly our sense organs
all point outwards.
If we had senses, for example, feeling your blood chemistry,
let's say you could measure 20 different parameters
of your blood chemistry and you could feel it,
I think we would all realize that we live
in a 23-dimensional space and that your liver
and your kidneys are actually intelligent agents
navigating that kind of physiological state space.
So there are many different spaces.
The space of gene expression,
which is a very high-dimensional space,
space of physiological states and anatomical morphospace,
which is a space of possible anatomical configurations
of a particular structure.
So what I think is that evolution
basically pivots some of the same tricks,
these tricks being navigational kinds of competencies
across all of these spaces as we went
from very simple prebiotic states to early life
and then eventually to a linguistic space in humans.
But I'm mostly gonna focus on this today,
this anatomical morphospace.
And I wanna point out something I think is interesting
that Alan Turing, who was always really focused
on what does it mean to be intelligent?
What are minds?
How can minds be instantiated in various kinds of media,
computation, all these kind of very fundamental things?
I mean, he was interested in problem-solving machines,
intelligence through reprogrammability.
But he also wrote, you may or may not know,
he wrote this paper called
The Chemical Bases of Morphogenesis.
This is about how molecules can self-organize
to form a structure in embryonic development.
Now that's kind of weird.
Why would somebody who was interested
in all this computation and intelligence
be looking at what chemicals are doing in morphogenesis?
And I think although, as far as I can tell,
he didn't write about this,
I think that Turing saw a very profound commonality,
a kind of invariance between the question
of where do minds come from and where do bodies come from?
And I think that is a very deep truth.
And there's a lot here.
And that's what we've been studying
for a couple of decades now.
So let's just ask this question.
Then where do body structures come from?
So this is a cross-section through a human torso.
You see the amazing order,
everything's in the right place relative to each other.
But we all start life like this,
like a collection of embryonic blastomeres.
