It's easy to just have open loop complexity,
but you actually have a kind of problem-solving capacity.
And I wanna show you a simple example of this
that we discovered a few years ago.
So these tadpoles need to turn into frogs.
And in order to turn into frogs,
they have to rearrange their face.
So the eyes, the nostrils, the mouth,
everything kind of has to move around.
And so you might think
that that's a hardwired mechanical process.
After all, all tadpoles look the same
and all frogs look the same.
So all you have to do is all each organ needs to know
is which direction to go and how much, and that's it.
So we decided to test that hypothesis
and we basically made what we call Picasso tadpoles.
We scrambled all the initial positions.
So the eyes on the back of the head,
the mouth is off to the side, the jaws are here,
like everything is scrambled.
And what you find is that these animals
make pretty normal frogs.
And that's because it's not hardwired.
All of these structures go move through novel kind
of abnormal paths to get to where they're going
to be a correct frog and then they stop.
If we had a robotics swarm that could do this,
we would absolutely be calling this
an amazing collective intelligence.
And so what the genetic specifies
is not a fixed set of deformations.
What it really specifies is this kind
of error correction scheme that can deal with novelty.
And this raises an important question again,
which is how does it know what the correct shape is?
How does it know where it's going in this anatomical space?
So that means that to the standard model
of developmental biology, this is what you'll see
in textbooks, it's a kind of like
feed forward open loop system where there are genes
which produce proteins and they turn each other on and off
and these proteins interact with each other
according to the various laws of physics and chemistry.
And then eventually you get this emergent complexity.
And that's all true, all of that does happen,
but there's another piece to this
which is really important and exciting,
which is that after that, if you then deviate
from this target morphology by injury,
by mutation, teratogens, whatever,
if you deviate from this, there are these feedback loops
both at the level of genetics and physics
that actually try to minimize the error
and get back to where you were.
This is a kind of homeostasis,
it's the sort of thing your thermostat does.
But there's a few interesting things here.
First of all, in a typical homeostatic loop
that biologists are familiar with,
so hunger level, pH, things like that,
temperature, things like that,
the set point of this process, right?
And every homeostatic process has to have a set point.
The set point of this process is, it's a scalar,
it's a single number, but here that's not gonna work.
You need some kind of, I mean,
you don't need to know it to the single cell level,
but you need some kind of large data structure,
a descriptor, an anatomical descriptor
that allows the system to minimize the distance from it.
And so that's kind of all,
and you might ask yourself,
how could you store such a thing in biological tissue?
Where is it?
How do you store it?
And so that's unusual.
And what this kind of view makes a very strong prediction.
It suggests that if that's true,
you should be able to find this homeostatic set point
and you should be able to rewrite it, to edit it.
And, well, find it, decode it and rewrite it.
And the reason that's exciting is because otherwise,
your only hope for making changes,
repairs or modifications is down here, right?
If you wanna make changes up here,
you have to figure out what genes do I change
to make that happen?
And this, going backwards here is fundamentally intractable.
It's an inverse problem that's fundamentally not solvable.
Think about, for example, fractals, right?
You've got a fractal formula,
you got this really beautiful complex pattern,
and you look at that and you say,
okay, I want this curly Q to be a little smaller
and I want another one over here.
What should the formula be?
And you can't derive that for exactly the same reason
because it's a kind of recurrent system
where everything adds up on top of each other.
So we said, okay, it would be very nice
if we could learn to edit the set point
and make changes there
and then let the cells do what they do best,
which is to implement that set point.
It's how you use your thermostat.
You don't rewire your thermostat,
you change the set point and let the system do what it does.
So we took our inspiration from the nervous system,
which is a system where we know it's uncontroversial
that there you store complex patterns.
And so the nervous system, here's the hardware.
It's these cells in the network
and each one has these little ion channels
that passes a current back and forth.
And as a result, there's a voltage gradient
and that voltage gradient may or may not be communicated
through these electrical synapse known as gap junctions.
That's the hardware.
And this is the softwares.
What you're looking at here is a living zebrafish brain.
And this group made an amazing video of the activity,
the electrical activity of a living fish brain.
And there's this notion of neural decoding,
which is that if we were to understand and decode
all of the information in this electrophysiology,
we would be able to read the creature's memories,
its preferences, behavioral repertoires, and so on.
We would be all of the,
that's the commitment of neuroscience
is that all of the cognitive content
is stored in this electrophysiology.
Well, it turns out that every cell in your body does this.
This is not just for brains.
Every cell has ion channels.
Every cell, well, most cells
have gap junctions to their neighbors.
And so you could ask the same question.
If you did a kind of non-neural decoding,
what could you learn?
Well, you would learn what it is
that non-brain cells are thinking about.
And so what are they thinking about?
And this is something that we've now been studying
for some years.
And the idea is that there's this really profound,
profound kind of invariance
between neuroscience and developmental biology.
And so in traditional neuroscience,
the electrical activity of the neurons in your brain,
so the software, is giving directions to muscles.
It's controlling muscles to move you
through three-dimensional space.
Now, that's a pretty cool trick.
Where did it learn that trick?
Well, evolution learned this
about the time of bacterial biofilms, super early on.
And what was happening in a multicellular organism,
which is basically a more complex version
of a bacterial biofilm,
the same kinds of electrical circuits
are now controlling all cells
to move your body configuration through morpho space.
So again, it's a navigation.
It's an earlier navigation,
but what evolution did was speed it up, of course.
Neurons are much faster than this,
and also pivoted to a different space.
Instead of anatomical space,
you're now running around three-dimensional space
when nerves and muscles show up.
And so this isomerism between
the kind of developmental biology and neuroscience
allows us to do things like this.
This is a, and you can play with this.
This is a tool that we developed
that you can access it here,
which basically takes any abstract from a neuroscience paper,
such as this beautiful work by Epinotesis and Miller,
and it uses AI to convert it
to a developmental biology paper that doesn't exist.
It's letting you explore the latent space of possible papers.
All it does is convert,
whenever the neuroscience says neuron,
this just says cell,
whenever it says millisecond,
this says minutes or hours,
and so on, it does a few other translations.
But it's really easy.
If you read this, this is a great abstract,
but it generates a very nice,
possible developmental biology paper that actually makes sense
and gives you hypotheses of new things to test.
So that kind of using AI to explore,
and in fact, this thing called field shift,
there's also opportunities to shift papers to other areas,
like financial finance and so on.
And so using AI to exploit these symmetries
between fields is really powerful.
And so what we did years ago was to build
