the first molecular tools for reading and writing
electrical information in non-neural cells.
And now we basically appropriated a lot from neuroscience
because those tools can't tell the difference.
They work everywhere.
They're not specific for neurons.
So first it's voltage sensitive fluorescent dyes.
So what you're seeing here is a time lapse
of an early frog embryo,
where we can see all the electrical conversations
that all these cells are having with each other.
And so we get to read the voltages,
and then we do all kinds of simulation.
And so we have the simulator and we do a lot of work
to try to understand how the molecular biology
of the ion channels gives rise to electric circuits
that have specific behaviors.
So I'm gonna show you a couple of patterns.
So this is again, voltage imaging,
and this is an early frog embryo putting its face together.
And there's all kinds of stuff going on.
But one thing to look at is,
this is one frame out of that movie right there.
That's the frame.
And so you can see here that long before the genes
are turned on to pattern the face,
and before the anatomy of the face develops,
you already see that this,
by looking at these electrical pattern memories,
you already see this animal nose.
Here's where the right eye is going to go.
Here's where the mouth is going to go.
Here are the placodes.
It's a subtle energetic scaffold, a pre-pattern
that tells the face what the shape should be.
And if you mess around with the shape,
then the gene expression changes in the anatomy changes.
I'll show you that in a minute.
But so this is a natural pattern
that's required for normal face development.
This memory is required for the cells
to know how to build a frog face.
And of course, you could use this technique
to monitor for birth defects.
Now, this is a pathological pattern.
We'll say a little bit more about that later,
but the idea is that we inject a human oncogene.
Eventually it makes a tumor.
Eventually the tumor starts to metastasize here.
But before that happens,
you can already see these cells
electrically disconnecting from their neighbors
and going off on their own
and basically treating the rest of the body
as just the external environment
because now they're on their own.
So okay, so even more important than the monitoring
is the idea of being able to rewrite these patterns
by functional states.
Now, I'm going to show you some outcomes of that,
but I want to be very clear.
We do not use, there are no electrodes,
there are no electromagnetic fields,
there are no magnets,
there are no waves, no radiations, no frequencies.
What we are doing is targeting the native interface
that the cells are using to hack each other.
What they're using are these little ion channels
on their surface and the gap junctions
that pass electrical signals to each other
into the outside world.
And that's how they set their voltage
and that's how they process information.
So there's a native interface, right?
Like the keyboard of a computer
that gives you privileged access
so that you don't have to try to directly micromanage
the information flow that's happening here.
And of course, when so we use the same tools
that neuroscientists use,
we can introduce changes into these channels,
we can use drugs for pharmacology
to open and close the channels,
we can use light, which is now optogenetics and so on,
same techniques.
And one of the things that,
so now I'm going to show you what happens.
What is this bioelectricity good for?
These electrical signals through the tissue.
And so the argument I'm going to make is that
it's actually, it is the protocognitive medium
of the collective intelligence of these cells.
It's the network, it mediates the network
that allows them to navigate things like
from a single cell shape to a complex organism.
And so when you're doing that,
what you're basically doing is scaling up
the goal space of the systems.
So when you have a single cell,
you could have this nice simple homeostatic loop
that would be respond to a certain local variable
like a pH or temperature or hunger level or something.
But what you want here is,
this is a very kind of humble goal.
It's a very tiny goal,
but you want to expand that cognitive light cone.
You want to be able to pursue a goal like this.
My goal is making this limb.
And it's not enough for me to be a single cell
worried about a local information.
All of these cells need to be able to build this
and then stop.
And no individual cell knows what a finger is
or how many fingers you're supposed to have,
but the collective absolutely does.
And so what you need to do is you need to scale.
You have to use some kind of communication
between these cells to scale them to larger scale goals
and large that cognitive light cone
so that the set points that they're going after
are much bigger and in a different space.
And they're able to recover from partial information
and navigate these energy landscapes.
And so one of the things you can do with bioelectricity
is address a particular failure mode of multicellularity.
That failure mode is known as cancer.
So again, think these, the individual cells
of little tiny cognitive light cones,
all this cell cares about is its own local state.
But here you've got this very large cognitive light cone.
It's a whole limb, but that process can break down.
And as I just told you, what happens is that
if individual cells disconnect from the environment,
this is glioblastoma.
This is a kind of cancer.
They basically treat the rest of the animal as external.
The environment, the boundary between self and world shrinks.
That cognitive light cone,
the size of the goals you're interested in and pursuing
is really the size of you as a self.
It's what determines the boundary
between you and the outside world.
And so when that shrinks, so here evolution inflates it,
then here sometimes it shrinks and it becomes cancer.
And so those cancer cells
aren't any more selfish than normal cells.
It's just that their self is smaller, right?
It's the question of how do you know
where you end in the outside world begins?
And this is one way that cells used to determine that.
And so what we, and knowing that
allows you to start to develop therapeutics.
So for example, here is this nasty oncogene,
for example, a human K-RAS mutation.
Normally it would make a tumor like this,
but what we can do, and it's labeled in red,
so you can see it's very strongly expressed.
In fact, that's all over the place,
but there's no tumor.
This is the same animal.
There's no tumor because what we did was
we injected an ion channel into these cells
to force them to be in the right electrical state
relative to their neighbors.
And even though there's genetic damage,
so the hardware is damaged,
but you can basically get around that at the software level
by having the appropriate connection to the network.
The network can overcome local damage.
And so this isn't chemotherapy.
You're not killing these cells, you're normalizing them.
You're bringing them back into correct functionality
with reconnecting to the network.
So that's what you can do on a single cell level
and we're of course pursuing that
into hopefully human medicine soon.
But you can also work at organ level.
So you can take ion channels encoding RNA
and coding specific ion channels,
inject them into this early embryo
at a location that's going to become gut.
And what you can do is you can recapitulate
that little eye spot.
I showed you that electric face
and there's a little pattern there
that's corresponding to an eye spot.
Well, you can recapitulate that pattern somewhere else.
And when you do that, these cells happily make an eye
and these eyes have all the same lens
and retina and optic nerve and everything else.
And so this tells you a few things.
It tells you that the bioelectric pattern is instructive
because it can call up whole other organs.
And also it shows you that it's incredibly modular
meaning that we didn't put in very much information at all.
There's not that much information to specify
an entire complex eye.
In fact, we have no idea how to make a frog eye.
What we did find is a trigger, AKA a subroutine call
that triggers all the stuff downstream
