Hello, Bayesian conspiracy listeners.
This is Kyle, the sound editor and sound designer of this podcast.
We at the Bayesian Conspiracy are looking for a new musical track to begin and end our podcast.
As the heavy metal track that you've been hearing thus far was just meant to be a placeholder
that we never got around to updating.
That is, until now.
So we'd like to ask you, our listeners, some of whom surely have vastly superior musical
composition skills than we do, if you'd like to compose something for us.
Your name will be credited at the end of every show.
Send us your submissions in MP3 format to BayesianConspiracyPodcast at gmail.com and
please keep the track no longer than a minute or so in length.
Thank you so much for being fans of the show, and we are very much looking forward to hearing
what you all come up with.
And now, back to the show.
Hello, welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy.
I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber.
And today we have with us Robin Hansen again.
Welcome back, Robin.
Great to be here.
Wonderful.
Great to have you.
And you are here because you have a new book out called Elephant in the Brain.
That's right.
Subtitle, Hidden Motives in Everyday Life.
Excellent.
And you, this came out like, what, a month ago now?
Well it came out January 2nd for the hardback, December 1st for the paper, I mean for the
e-version, but in the United Kingdom it doesn't come out until February 1st on the hardback,
so I'll let it spread out.
Okay.
That's, usually they drop things at the same time, don't they?
They try to, but apparently big publishers spread across multiple continents don't coordinate
that well.
Man, that's, that's, that's disappointing.
But yes, you have been, I'm assuming, making the tours already with the book and you've
been getting some feedback on the blogs.
Before we get into all that, we should probably summarize what the book is to our listeners,
though, for those who don't know.
Well, I think we can let Robin do that if you'd like.
Yeah.
It is your book.
Absolutely.
Happy to.
So my idea here is it's the one thing I wish I would have known at the beginning in my
career as a social scientist.
Okay.
We social scientists and policy makers are too naive and we take people at their word
for the main purpose of many common social institutions.
So in public species or letters of application, people will talk about school as if it's about
learning the material.
And so then social scientists and policy makers will focus on figuring out better ways to
learn the material or which variations help people learn the material faster.
Similarly in medicine, people talk about medicine as if it's about getting healthy.
And so then social scientists who study medicine and policy makers who try to reform medicine,
they focus on medicine as if it were about trying to make people healthier.
And the claim of our book is that in these two cases and many others, we are just wrong
about the main purpose of these institutions.
And that should be surprising to many of you and that's why our book should be interesting.
If we are wrong, of course, about these things, then our attempts to reform them are going
to go badly.
We're just missing the point.
And we suggest that this is in fact one of the big reasons why people are a lot less
interested in proposals for social reform than they are in proposals for physics or
other software device reform.
So I remember originally you started out in physics, right?
I started out in engineering, switched to physics, then I did philosophy of science
for a bit and then finished with a master's in physics, then I did nine years of computer
research at Lockheed and NASA and at that point at the age of 34 with two kids age zero
and two, I switched to get a PhD in social science at Caltech.
I take it that your background in the hard sciences and engineering is what really led
you to believe that people are looking for answers.
Do you think that people who have grown up in the social sciences are more aware of the
fact that this is often not the actual case?
Well, they are aware of a low level of interest.
They aren't so aware of the immediate contrast with the physical and software sciences and
that many of the usual uses don't explain the difference.
So of course, it's obvious, of course, that the world is conservative and not paying attention
and so they'd rather stick with what they've got if you have a proposal and you're so academic
with some weird paper, they're probably not paying attention to it and you might attribute
the lack of interest in social innovations to those things.
You might also notice that many proposed social innovations are huge and require vast reorganization
of society and obviously that's going to be hard and rarely tried.
But what people don't notice is there are a lot of pretty small social innovations, little
voting systems, ways to do contracts that are similarly complex to physics and software
innovations that we try and then we have a lot of pretty big, expensive things we try
in physics and software and so I think seeing them both up close makes it clear that there's
an actual difference when you hold constant the other things.
People are actually less interested in social innovations all else equal.
You have an example of a small local thing that can be fixed that people seem to not
want to do?
Sure.
So if we're having a conversation with a couple of people like you and I, we can wonder how
to allocate conversation time and one way to do it is just to do it informally and let
somebody dominate if they're socially strong enough.
Other times people time people and say you can talk for 30 seconds and you can talk for
30 seconds, that's kind of awkward but a simple solution is to time each person and keep
a budget and collect and then let whoever has talked the least so far take priority
if there's any conflicts and there's some simple ways to do that and there's relatively
little interested in that.
Another simple solution is if you've got a group of people who've got some chores to
do and you're trying to decide who should do the next chore, one way is to make it very
strict.
You know you do it on Monday, I do it on Tuesdays, etc.
But you can have a simple variation where you have what I call a tug-of-war board where
you just have a zero point and every time I do it I pull it in my direction, every time
you do it you pull it your direction and then once it's two or three away from the middle
maybe we'll start to do something more extreme to keep somebody up but again those are just
two very small examples and there's a vast world of other possibilities out there.
You're pretty famous for saying the in general X is not about Y.
And this is the book about that or you could claim it's not the book about that I guess.
This book's really about social prestige, right?
That's why you're...
Exactly.
It could be about multiple things but on the surface it's about the X is not about
a Y.
Well and you make the joke in there I think in the conversation chapter that your two
authors wrote this really just one reason might not just be to share our ideas because
then we could do it for free on our blogs but we wrote this book because we like the
prestige of getting published and all that.
The wonderful thing is I have read almost everything here on your blog over the last
10 years maybe not almost all of it but like a lot of it I picked up through your blog
and so what was the reason for publishing the book?
Was it like to create a single shelling point and put this officially into the public discourse?
Yeah so it's a lot easier for people to share an idea and a point to it when there's a book
that represents it.
Books grant authority and credentials that a bunch of blog posts don't and they have
an integrated whole.
If you point to blog posts you're not sure you're missing the right ones or should you
read the entire blog or will it be enough to read particular posts?
Why are you missing conversation between a book?
It puts that all together and also even makes it more accessible.
When you're writing a blog post you don't introduce all of the ideas behind everything
in the same way you might do for a book.
So this book summarizes the background ideas you might need to know that I wouldn't bother
to explain on the blog and puts them all in an order and says if you read these all in
this order you'll get it.
You won't be missing something.
Oh shit I just had a bad insight about my motivations.
Like I always assumed I like blogs better because they're simpler and I can read them
like piecemeal day to day but now it sounds like I may like blogs because they are harder
for outsiders to get into.
Yeah it's an exclusive access.
You can show that because you get it you've been reading it regularly and that distinguishes
you from others.
Well damn.
So I think this actually brings up, I mean obviously you're the guy to ask about this
but the whole X isn't really about Y it's really about Z.
I think that's a false dichotomy that it's not that it's really you know say in this
case Enyaush is reading a blog post as opposed to books isn't so on the surface it might
have been it's because he likes learning stuff but it's not really about that it's really
about him liking exclusive knowledge but I think it's fair to say that it's about both
right and I think that's the case in most of these things.
To be precise almost everything humans do can have enormous numbers of effects and therefore
there can be an enormous number of motivations for almost everything and obviously for averaging
over any big area like medicine or education or even blog posts if we add that all up there's
going to be thousands of motivations that contribute to those behavior.
So how can we ever say anything if there's thousands?
Well we can talk about the main motivations the ones that are most driving behavior and
of course as social scientists this is what we do usually want to talk about.
We do know that everything has enormous implications but still we want to understand the social
world so we start to start with the biggest things and say well what are the main motives
here and so for each area there is a main motive that we most often go to if we are
asked to justify or explain what we're doing even though there are many other things.
So for going to school people say it's to learn the material but of course they meet
friends there they can be a nice place to sit out and have a picnic you know you could
be not know what else to do so you do this by default I mean you know there's thousands
of reasons.
But again there's a usual story we say and so that would be the X you know it's not
about X and then if we ask among these other possible motives which one is actually much
bigger than we like to admit and perhaps more plausibly is the main motive and that would
be the other one and so but of course there are many thousands more always going on.
Yeah so to make it like kind of personal and uncomfortable at this moment in theory we
are having this conversation to like share information about your book is that like the
primary reason why we're doing this or is there alternate reasons that are that dominate.
You know if we had asked you a month ago before you anticipated having me on if somebody had
you on an interview show and they say well why do you do the podcast I'm sure you could
imagine what you have said.
I don't know because it feels good to because I am sure more I want everyone in the world
to know my name.
In addition there'd be a large mix of motives for each motives there's a whole chain of
causation so there's a we can distinguish proximate up close motives and distal motives so you know
for an awful lot of things the reason we do it is it feels good or at some level I thought
that would be a good idea and those are true but they can be true simultaneously as other
more distal motives can be.
You can go to school to say show off in addition to going to school because it feels good it
could feel good to show off.
Before we moved on I wanted to quickly touch because I just have this near the top in my
notes I think one of my favorite things that you pointed out in this and I don't remember
if it was in the book or in or just in the blog posts but the observation that laughter
for a long time people have been saying why the hell do humans laugh.
That's in the book that's one of my favorite chapters.
Yes and your insight was that laughter is mainly to signal that this is playtime and
we don't have to take things like deadly seriously right now.
Right just to be clear very few things in the book are original in the sense that nobody's
ever said it before what we're trying to do in this book is pull a lot of things together
and to make an overall point and that's actually related to the theme Bayesian
of your blog post title your podcast title that is I think there's a Bayesian argument
for why it would make sense to simultaneously argue for a bunch of these all together in one book.
And that is because when you see them all together in one book it helps people to
