It's just a frequentist confidence interval that
does not need to be an interval.
Actually, in this case, it's going to be an interval.
But that's just what it means.
Yeah, region for Bayesian was just because,
I mean, the confidence intervals, when we're frequentists,
we tend to make them intervals because we want.
But when you're Bayesian and you're doing this level set thing,
you cannot really guarantee.
And let's just say, you know, it's going to be an interval.
So region is just a way to not have to say interval
in case it's not.
OK, so I have this thing.
So what I need to check is the probability
that theta is in one of those two things, right?
So what I need to find is the probability that theta
is in, well, x1 minus 1 and x1 is not equal to x2.
And those are disjoint events.
So it's plus the probability that theta
is in x1 plus x2 over 2 and x1, sorry, that's equal.
That's different.
OK, just before we actually finish the computation,
why do I have 75%?
75% is 3 quarters.
So it means that we have four cases.
And essentially, I did not account for one case.
And it's true.
I did not account for this case when
the both of the epsilon i's are equal to minus 1.
So this is essentially the one I'm not
going to be able to account for.
And so we'll see that in a second.
So in this case, we know that everything goes great.
So in this case, this is, OK, well, let's just write.
Let's start from the first line.
So the first line is the probability that theta
is equal to x1 minus 1 and those two are equal.
So this is the probability that theta is equal to,
well, this is theta plus epsilon 1 minus 1.
And epsilon 1 is equal to epsilon 2,
because I can remove the theta from here
and I can actually remove the theta from here
so that this guy here is just epsilon 1 is equal to 1.
So when I intersect with this guy,
it's actually the same thing as epsilon 1 is equal to 1 as well.
Epsilon 2 is equal to 1 as well, OK?
So this first thing is actually equal to the probability
that epsilon 1 is equal to 1 and epsilon 2 is equal to 1,
which is equal to what?
Yeah, 1 quarter, right?
So that's just the first case over there.
They're independent.
Now, I still need to do the second one.
So this case is what?
Well, when those things are equal, x1 plus x2 over 2 is what?
Well, I get theta plus theta over 2.
So that's just equal to the probability
that epsilon 1 plus epsilon 2 over 2 is equal to 0.
And epsilon 1 is different from epsilon 2, agreed?
I just removed the thetas from these equations,
because I can't.
They're just on both sides every time, OK?
And so that means what?
That means that the second part, so this thing is actually
equal to 1 quarter plus the probability
that epsilon 1 and epsilon 2 over 2 is equal to 0.
I can remove the 2.
So this is just the probability that 1 is 1
and the other 1 is minus 1, right?
So that's equal to the probability
that epsilon 1 is equal to 1 and epsilon 2
is equal to minus 1 plus the probability
that epsilon 1 is equal to minus 1 and epsilon 2
is equal to plus 1, OK?
Because they're disjoint events, so I can break them
into the sum of the 2.
And each of those guys is also one of the atomic part of it,
right?
It's one of the basic things.
And so each of those guys has probability 1 quarter.
And so here we can really see that we
counted for everything except for the case
when epsilon 1 was equal to minus 1
and epsilon 2 was equal to minus 1.
So this is 1 quarter.
This is 1 quarter, so the whole thing is equal to 3 quarters.
So now what we have is that the probability
that epsilon 1 is in the, so the probability that theta belongs
to this confidence region is equal to 3 quarters.
And that's very nice.
But the thing is some people are sort of, I mean,
it's not super nice to be able to say this
because in a way, I know that if I observe x1 and x2 that
are different, I know for sure that x is that theta, that I
actually got the right theta, right?
That this confidence interval is actually
happening with probability 1.
And the problem is that I do not know,
I cannot make this precise with the notion
of frequencies confidence intervals,
because frequencies confidence intervals
have to account for the fact that in the future,
it might not be the case that x1 and x2 are different.
So Bayesian confidence regions, by definition,
well, they're all gone, but they're
conditioned on the data that I have.
And so that's what I want.
I want to be able to make a statement conditionally
on the data that I have.
So if I want to be able to make this statement,
I'm going to have to put, if I want
to build a Bayesian confidence region,
I'm going to have to put a prior on theta.
So without loss of generality, I mean, maybe with,
but let's assume that pi is a prior on theta.
And let's assume that pi of j is strictly positive
for all integers, j equals, say, 0, well, actually,
for all j in the integers, positive or negative.
So that's a pretty weak assumption on my prior.
I'm just assuming that theta is some integer.
And now let's build our confidence, our Bayesian
confidence region.
Well, if I want to build a Bayesian confidence region,
I need to understand what my posterior is going to be.
And if I want to understand what my posterior is going to be,
I actually need to build a likelihood.
So we know that it's the product of the likelihood
and of the prior divided by, OK.
So what is my likelihood, right?
So my likelihood is the probability of x1, x2 given theta.
That's what the likelihood should be.
And now let's say that actually, just
to make things a little simpler, let
us assume that x1 is equal to, I don't know, 5.
And x2 is equal to 7, OK.
So this is exactly, I'm not going
to take the case where they're actually equal to each other.
Because I know that in this case, x1 and x2 are different.
I know I'm going to actually nail exactly what theta is
by looking at the average of those guys, right?
Here, it must be that theta is equal to 6.
So what I want is to compute the likelihood at 5 and 7, OK?
What is this likelihood?
Well, if theta is equal to 6, that's just the probability
that I observe 5 and 7, right?
So what is the probability that I observe 5 and 7?
Yeah?
1?
1 quarter.
That's 1 quarter, right?
Is the probability that I have minus 1 for the first epsilon
1?
So this is, if theta is 6, this is the probability
that epsilon 1 is equal to minus 1 and epsilon 2
is equal to plus 1, which is equal to 1 quarter.
So this probability is 1 quarter.
If theta is different from 6, what is this probability?
So if theta is different from 6, since we know that we've
only loaded the integers, right?
So theta has to be another integer.
What is the probability that I see 5 and 7?
0.
So that's my likelihood.
And if I want to know what my posterior is,
well, it's just pi of theta times p of 5, 6 given theta
divided by the sum overall t's, say, in z, right?
So now I just need to normalize this thing.
So of pi of t, p of 5, 6 given t, agreed?
That's just the definition of the posterior.
But when I sum these guys, there's only one that counts.
Because for those things, we know that this is actually
equal to 0 for every t, except for when t is equal to 6.
So this entire sum here is actually
equal to pi of 6 times p of 5, 6, sorry, 5, 7 of 5, 7,
given that I see, given that theta is equal to 6, which we
know is equal to 1 quarter.
And I did not tell you what pi of 6 was, right?
But it's the same thing here.
The posterior for any theta that's not 6
is actually going to be, this guy is going to be equal to 0.
So I really don't care what this guy is.
So what it means is that my posterior becomes what?
It becomes, so posterior, pi of theta given 5 and 7 is equal to,
well, when theta is not equal to 6, this is actually 0.
So regardless of what I do here, I get something which is 0.
And if theta is equal to 6, what I get
is pi of 6 times p of 5, 7 given 6,
which I've just computed here, which is 1 quarter,
divided by pi of 6 times 1 quarter.
So it's the ratio of two things that are identical,
so I get 1.
So now my posterior tells me that given
that I observe 5 and 7, theta is giving me,
has to be 6 with probability 1.
So now I sort of say that this thing here,
so now I can act, this is not something that actually
makes sense when I talk about frequentist confidence intervals.
I cannot really, they don't really
make sense to talk about confidence intervals given something.
And so now given that I observe 5 and 7,
