in this episode of Street Talk Unplugged.
So the free energy principle
originally emerged from systems neuroscience
as a way, a principled way,
of understanding what the brain does and how it does it.
Subsequently, the principles proved to be so simple
and so powerful that they've been applied
in a variety of contexts now.
So one could almost regard the free energy principle
as an organizing principle for any living system
that shows the characteristics of life.
In this episode, we'll be doing a bit of epistemic foraging
with Professor Carl Friston, legendary neuroscientist
and inventor of the free energy principle.
The basic idea is that our brains are in the game
of predicting sensory inputs to try and infer the causes
that generate sensations and to work out states of the world
so that we can respond adaptively.
Now, long ago in my own personal epistemic journey,
I learned an important truth,
that simple and easy are not the same thing.
Our shared human journey is filled with examples
of simple ideas that were nonetheless hard to discover
and some that even once explained remain hard to comprehend.
Their subtle simplicity belies their far-reaching
and deep consequences.
Examples might include the principle of relativity,
quantum mechanics, the principle of parsimony and entropy.
I think the free energy principle is another example.
Profound and far-reaching, yet belied by its simplicity,
it has on the one hand been dismissed as a triviality
or even a tautology and on the other,
hailed as revolutionary and everything in between.
It has the potential to reshape how we view the connection
between inanimate matter and the living things
and even to answer the question of how and why consciousness
and intelligence might emerge from physical matter and processes.
There are, of course, newer attempts to explain the free energy principle
such as Carl's own recent paper called
The Free Energy Principle Made Simpler but Not Too Simple.
The paper develops by starting from a world modeled
as a stochastic differential equation.
Now, leaving aside the technical jargon, that means a world where all things
from particles to people to the largest systems
all move or evolve according to two processes which combine.
The first is a smooth-flowing evolution.
Think of planets orbiting a star or waves
rippling over water or through quantum fields.
The second is a random process that knocks around the smooth flow
in unpredictable ways. Think of twinkling stars or
audio static. You might think of these two processes as a kind of order
and chaos or yin and yang forever intertwined and enmeshed.
These two very different effects combine into a chaotic flow
which may be entangled in a kind of tropical storm
while still maintaining a semblance of structure and things.
Think about raindrops undulating down to earth
in a state of constant flux yet still droplets or a human being
growing and adapting to the surprises of life
all the while remaining an individual physical entity.
Biology often asks the question, what must things do
in order to exist? Professor Friston has turned that question on its head
and developed perhaps the ultimate existential formalism.
He asks, if things exist, what must they do?
From the foundation of stochastic differential equations,
Friston demonstrates that things which are defined by a Markov blanket
must always move towards a pullback attractor.
A special set of attracting states which maintains the integrity of the Markov
blanket and therefore a thing's coherence
and identity over time. One of the profound consequences of this
is that the dynamics of such a system, its laws of motion,
will manifest a form of flow dynamics which can be interpreted
as Bayesian active inference. In other words, such a thing maintains
an internal equivalent of a generative model
encoding beliefs about the world and itself. The thing
uses the model to decide actions and then performs a Bayesian update
based on the outcomes. For me, the idea that inference,
something widely perceived as purely abstract or mathematical,
the idea that it can be driven by simple laws of motion
dynamically maintaining the boundaries between things,
maintaining order in the face of chaos is frankly astonishing.
What's more, the free energy principle is so general
that it applies at all scales of size and time, leading to an ecosystem of
things interacting across scales. Perhaps in that multi-scale
active inference, we might finally find the keys
to a mathematics of emergence and consciousness.
So, it's so good to see you. It's been what, about a year since
our show and I've been looking forward to chatting with you.
It doesn't seem like a year. Yes, I suppose it has two days.
Yeah, it's been almost about a year actually, a little bit longer.
Time goes very quickly during the coronavirus.
Are you all back up to normal now or still
restricted? Kind of not back up to normal, still some
restrictions and they change very often and
it's a bit confusing but it's more normal than it was, I'll say that.
That's an interesting concept, right?
By the way, I just listened to your Kurt's Theory of Everything podcast.
Was that the four hour one? There was a very long one.
I think it was at least three hours. It was the one where at the end you were
talking about derealisation and depersonalisation and
getting into psychology. Well, almost psychotherapy if I remember
correctly. Yes, psychotherapy, that's a better way to put it.
Quite often, because we do say this about you, Carl, that
you have a burden of knowledge. We mean this in the nicest possible way.
You always know five synonyms for a word in every single
domain of science. You even have a background in
psychotherapy, so it does create a tendency for conversations to
potentially go anywhere. When we listened to Kurt's interview of you
last time, I was really surprised because we
prepared a lot for our session with you, Carl.
Kurt was asking some really open-ended questions that were
on the surface quite naive questions, but they elicited
the most interesting responses from you. It really made us rethink a little bit
how we do everything on our podcast. I suspect that parts of that
free-ranging beauty was a fact. There was no hard limit of the time.
I have no idea. Three hours, but he was a very engaging
young man. I think part of that open-endedness was
deliberate. He was indulging a bit of epistemic foraging.
Well, it's funny you say that because that's the free energy principle in a
nutshell, isn't it? We need to balance the entropy.
Back to this burden of knowledge, because I want to ask you
a little bit about that. I find this is often the case.
Say, for example, a kid comes and shows you a test that they're taking,
and there's a math question on there. When I was their age, I could have
answered it quite easily, but as I learned more about mathematics and
engineering, now I look at the question and I'm sitting there thinking,
yeah, but there's all these assumptions. How do you know this variable is
positive? Maybe it's negative. It could be a real
number. You have all this extra knowledge that's
entering in and impinging, if you will, on the ability to answer that
question. I think a lot of times when you're asked
a deep question, I'm imagining because your depth of
knowledge and breadth of knowledge is so large, you're sitting here thinking,
okay, how can I answer this in a way that's precise
and accurate? Therefore, it requires the use of
technical and accurate and precise terms, but then for the person hearing
that answer, they may not have the requisite knowledge
of those terms, and so it seems as if it's coming across as
obscure or something. Do you run into that often?
Yeah, well, I think we all do, don't we? Looking across disciplines,
you've got to find the narrative that works.
In a sense, if you're taking a re-energy principle approach to this,
you try to establish some kind of generalized synchrony,
so that mind-out-it becomes your narrative, but that mutual understanding
does require a commitment to the same rhetoric, the same calculus.
So you'll often pick up a lot of theory of mind or perspective-taking.
To the extent sometimes you have to sacrifice a degree of precision,
if I wanted to articulate something that I know I could simulate or write down
mathematically, it would just take the kind of
language which was not part of the portfolio the person I was talking to
to go through properly. So you just have to take shortcuts,
heuristics, and the like, which is part of the art.
Back to Einstein, keep everything as simple but as possible, but not too
simple. Well, in a bit, we're going to ask you
about your most recent paper that literally has that title,
almost the free energy principle made simpler, but not too simple. So we're
going to ask you about that later. Indeed, we are.
And it's interesting what you say, Carl, because you're talking about things
which are so alien. It might seem that you're pointing out
the obvious when you talk about self-evidencing or when you talk about
the basics of probability theory. But Keith and I often remark that a lot of
people just don't understand probability theory, a lot of very smart people.
And it might seem that we're reducing it down to the most basic
principles, but they just can't be articulated very clearly.
Yes, and people like me sort of lose sight of that. There are some basics you
assume people do know because it takes years before
you're fluent and have all the right intuitions.
So I think, in part, is an explanation for why people like me
sort of cast as being imperishable or very difficult to understand where
it's not. But it probably reflects, again, a lack of theory of
mind in terms of being able to understand what people
do know and don't know. Wonderful. Well, I'm going to officially
introduce you, Cole. Professor Friston is a British neuroscientist
at University College London and an authority on brain imaging.
In 2016, he was ranked the most influential neuroscientist on Semantic
Scholar. He pioneered and developed the single most
powerful technique for analyzing the results of brain imaging studies,
and he's currently a Wellcome Trust Principal Fellow and Scientific
Director of the Wellcome Trust Center for Neuroimaging.
His main contribution to theoretical neurobiology
is the free energy principle and its Bayesian reinforcement learning
flavor, active inference. The free energy principle
is a formal statement that the existential imperative of any system
which survives in the changing world can be cast as an
inference problem, the probability of existing
as the evidence that you exist, if you will. This is what Carl refers to as
self-evidencing or even autopiosis. Now, the system, of course, could exist
at any scale or time, and as you might well imagine, this will
lead us directly into a discussion on complex systems theory,
self-organization and emergence. Anyway, Professor Friston,
it's an absolute honor to have you back on the show. Welcome.
Thank you very much. It's great to be back talking to you again.
And incidentally, a great summary of the free energy principle.
Was that from Wikipedia or something slightly more learned?
Well, we like to interpolate from multiple sources, Carl.
Yeah. If we can just jump back actually
to what we were talking about with things that are simple,
that may still be hard to understand. If I may, I want to
share an anecdote with you. And this is really, this came to
mind when I was reading a recent paper, the free energy principle made
simpler, but not too simple. And the first
