This is what it thinks it looks like, but it doesn't match the current anatomy and that's fine nothing changes until this animal gets injured.
Then this pattern is consulted and the cells build a two headed animal. So what this is is not only is that a pattern memory that that serves as the as the set point.
But it is actually counterfactual memory. It is a very primitive example of a kind of mental time travel where we're used to brains being able to do this amazing thing where they they can remember things that aren't true right now they can
anticipate things that also aren't true right now. This this state of affairs is not true right now for this animal. The anatomy is normal the gene expression is normal, but this is what it stores as what am I going to do if I get injured in the future at some point.
So, so we now know that the body of a planarian can store at least two no no doubt more but we've nailed down to two representations of what the target pattern is going to be if it should happen to be injured in the future.
Now another reason I call this thing a pattern memory is this this remarkable result which is that if you if you make a two headed worm, and then you cut them again in plain water.
They continue to regenerate two headed as in a two headed way. There is no genetic change here we're not touching the genome we're not reprogramming the at the genetic level. We have we have altered through a physiological experience.
The set point that guides the movement of the regenerative process in in in their navigation of space, and it will continue to that that electrical circuit holds as long as as long as we don't set it back and we now know how to set it back.
It will continue to hold. So this this system has all the properties of memory now not in physical space in anatomical space. It's long term stable, but it's rewritable. It has a conditional recall which I just showed you a moment ago.
It's got discrete possible behaviors so one head versus two, the individual cells aren't doing discrete things it's the group the collective right the individual cells here aren't confused as to whether there should be part of a head or a tail, the collective makes a decision about where it's going to go.
Not only not only can you can you convince this the system to to permanently take up a different set point for the number of heads you can do the same thing for the type of heads and you can make them have heads of other species.
For example, here's a nice triangular headed Dugizia Doradoscephala. If we cut that head off and manipulate the the bioelectrical network, you can they will make heads of flat heads like this Pifolina, they will make round heads like this S Mediterranean, and they will happily that same
hardware that same genomically determined hardware will visit the attractors and anatomical space where normally these other system these other species hang out, but 100 to 150 million year distance here, no genetic change, and the same thing is
is true of their stem cell distribution their brain shape, they can adopt the brain shape and the stem cells of these other species, the behavior we're still we're still trying to nail down whether that's true.
So the last, the last piece of this, I want to show you before we stop is this what happens when, when this this this cognitive glue fails I've been, I've been arguing that much like in the brain, these these electrical networks provide an essential connectivity that allows groups of cells to store
memories, and to pursue error minimization with respect to those memories about goals in other spaces that the individual cells do not worry about so so we're not so so the, the tiny little homeostatic goals of this cell which basically are just the scale of the cell
and they're sort of, you know, metabolic goals and things like that. What evolution and development do is they scale up and give us electrical and chemical networks that can have very grandiose goals they can maintain things like this, where if you deviate away
from this, then they will work really hard to get back and then they stop and relax. So, so, so what happens here is the scaling I in my framework I call this the cognitive light cone for various reasons that we could get into but the size of the, of the set points
towards which the system can competently work is is greatly scaled up from here to here now. Now these electrical processes can fail. And one thing that happens when cells become isolated from the rest of the network is they can no longer
maintain participation in this in this pattern. This is a human glioblastoma. And what happens here is that these cells are once they disconnect from the network they roll back to their ancient unicellular self.
Their goals are now extremely small it's what is it it's it they're there to get as much nutrients as they can and to proliferate as much as they can and to go wherever they want. As far as they're concerned, the rest of the animal is just external environment.
So these cells are not more selfish it's that their cells are smaller. What's happening here is that it's kind of under a dissociative identity disorder as is certainly as seen in conventional cognitive systems as it's just, you know, human human minds.
We can have that here too this system can break up so that the individual cells are pursuing their own agendas, no longer this this kind of collective thing that was working so well before.
So that leads that kind of that's that that really different way of thinking about cancer not as a genetic disorder of a broken genome and so on.
But as a as a as a failure of maintaining the properly sized boundary between self and world. So the scaling of that where do I end in the outside world begins by thinking about it in this weird way that suggests a very specific therapeutic that once you have this kind of there's
the first thing these cells do when the oncogene is expressed as they depolarize and cut electrical connections with their neighbors at that point they can no longer remember what they're supposed to be building and that's it you know then you get metastasis.
So, one thing you might do here is say okay instead of toxic chemotherapy we're not going to try to kill these cells.
What we're going to do is force them to reconnect back to their neighbors. So when I inject this oncogene and they said these are nasty human oncogenes like KRAS mutations and so on.
What you can also do is co inject an ion channel that keeps the cell in tight electrical connection with their neighbors right so it gave it hyperpolarizes it so the gap junctions can form.
So, so this is the same animal here's the oncoprotein it's blazingly strongly expressed in fact it's all over the place, there's no tumor.
And there's no tumor because it isn't the hardware that drives it isn't the genetic state that that drives this, much like in in in the in the neuroscience where where you know the same hardware can do many different different behaviors right depending on the local physiology.
That's what's happening here is that these cells are connected to their neighbor and now the whole network is busy minimizing delta from having nice skin nice, you know liver and then all those kinds of things.
And so this again this also we're now moving into moving into humans. So, so the final you know my final point is that when we're talking about bio biomedicine where where the rubber hits the road with these with these discussions of intelligence and can we is that a category error to think
about intelligence and non brainy systems. To me as a as an engineer, I judge all of this by how much utility you can squeeze out of it and if we can use the tools of behavioral and neuroscience to achieve new capabilities and in in regenerative medicine
and cancer and whatever, then, then I think we're on to something and that means that if we take seriously the idea that that the body has a multi scale architecture where the different pieces have different competencies on the scale.
That means that we have lots of new kinds of approaches and I'm just going to show you one real quick one.
This is, if you if you look at this thing, you might ask what what what is this, and you might think that this is a primitive organism that I got out of the bottom of a pond somewhere.
And I can tell you that if you were to sequence the genome of this little guy, what you would see is homo sapiens. This is 100% homo sapiens genome.
What this is is is a was something we call an anthropot. It's made of cells collected from adult human patients so actually tracheal epithelium that people donate.
And under a certain protocol that we have these cells self assembled so there's no new genetic genetic material no trans genes no weird nano materials no scaffolds.
Automatically assemble into this self motile little little structure, which has all kinds of interesting behaviors. Here's one.
If you plate human neurons here on this on this dish and then you make a scratch so a wound through this neural layer.
And then if you if you allow them to accumulate in a particular area across this neural scar, what you'll see is that they spend about four days knitting the sides together when you lift it up there's there's there's what it's doing.
Who would have known that your tracheal cells which normally sit there for decades quietly in your in your airway are actually capable of having a kind of a novel existence in the self motile form with new competencies we would have never known that this is something
that they can do that we nobody would have known that they can heal neural neural defects. If we hadn't tested their various the plasticity of these cells what are they willing to do.
What do they know how to do this is just experiment one you know who knows what else. So the bottom line here is that for biomedicine.
The molecular approach of always going down downwards in terms of descriptive models and and the concepts that we're using gives rise to all of these techniques, but being able to look at the things that neuroscience is very good at
multi scale kinds of interventions as you know there's been known for for for for many many years that you can look at the scale of the synapses but you can and molecular protein proteins in the synapse but you can also look at circuits and and and
you know group dynamics and all of these other scales. All of this now is on the table and we've done a lot of work here about things that I've not shown you about this idea of really targeting and we've done cell training and things like that really targeting these competencies by taking
seriously the idea that intelligence is not something you can guess but you have to discover and for that reason I think that future medicine is going to look a lot more like a kind of somatic psychiatry then it's going to look like a chemistry of today.
So I'm going to stop here and just say that I think it's important to consider that intelligence can be deployed in in an embodiment can be deployed in many different spaces besides our familiar 3D space that there's an attractive target for biomedicine in the mechanisms that
bind cells together towards goals in higher higher scale spaces by electricity is a key element of this. And I really think that the the major the deep ideas of neuroscience are not about neurons at all and they have to do with cross scale kinds of
dynamics problem solving dynamics that evolution exploits at every at every level of structure. And so that's it. If you're interested in any of these things. There are lots of lots of papers on this where I go into into detail.
I will thank the the postdocs and the students who did all this work are many collaborators are funders the companies three companies that fund our work and always the animals because they do all the hard work. So thank you so much and I'll take any questions.
