for stuff we've done.
But part of the reason I wanted to do this
was I didn't really know a lot of what went into a wedding.
So like other than what I've seen from the movies
and the one or two weddings I've been to in my life,
I didn't have a lot to work with.
So I found it helpful to have an illustrated thing
to look at to do it all for.
So.
Things to research.
Yeah.
Anyway, fun stuff.
Yeah.
Merdynamel is right.
And I like don't mean to come off as
everybody should be using task management systems either.
I like to use productivity tools
and task management systems
because I personally find it fun.
And also because I have problems
with procrastination and time management.
And it helps.
The system that you were talking about
that you use at work, Stephen.
I can actually test whether taking this 30 minutes
of every eight hour day
is improving the group's productivity or not.
You can also kind of get an intuitive sense
of whether you're actually performing,
you know, better yourself doing more tasks
than you would have done otherwise.
And yeah, it can get to be distracting.
And I definitely have spent some time.
Like what I had to like quit using to do
is because it had too many widgets.
You could like, I think I was telling you guys last time
that you can like name your task, color code it,
and then add a custom icon to it.
And then you can drag it into like a subgroup
of like household tasks.
And then you can, it's just like it had too much stuff.
And I was spending so much time like doing all of that stuff
that it was taking time away from tasks.
And I found it fun.
So at least it's not like a total waste of time.
But if you're miserable
and you hate doing task management, maybe you don't.
Or, you know, if it is helping you,
then maybe suck it up and do it.
Like, I don't know.
And there are other metrics things to consider.
And that's part of what our management tool does
is that like, A, it is really nice to be able to like,
all right, I'm done with this.
What's next?
And you don't have to like remember,
you don't have to go find it.
It's just right there, the next thing on the board,
which is nice to be able to see.
But the other thing that it does
that it's hard to put a dollar,
like put a productivity value on
is like give transparency to your bosses.
Bosses is like they're,
they believe that you are doing enough work or something, right?
Or like maybe, oh yeah,
they don't have enough people to need more people on their team.
So it gives a level of visibility higher up
that just like me telling my boss to tell his boss
to tell their boss wouldn't really help with, right?
So yeah, productivity.
Sometimes the tools are for more than just getting stuff done.
Yeah, there's more to say about that too.
Like the whole, you know, productivity,
there's like a cult of productivity
where you can get way too obsessed with it
and kind of like use that as the one metric of your worth.
And I don't want anyone going down that path either.
I know I struggle with that too,
but like, you know, getting lots of tasks done
is in everything.
There's like, you know, working on your mental health
or like finding fulfillment in life.
So find fulfillment in life
by doing things and being productive.
Exactly, but there's other things too
that like it's hard to measure.
Is there other things?
Well, like consider like, as a writer,
like your measure of productivity
is probably correlated to the words per minute
or words per day, but it's not the same as
because you could really spend all day writing garbage.
You can crap art parts, yeah.
So like, I don't know how you measure the rest of it
because I'm not a writer, but there's some,
there's some difference where...
You don't.
You're just like, I think these are good ones
and every now and then you hear about the writer
that brings up three books a year and you're like,
don't, I don't think those are good ones.
You know what you could do?
You could do your draft
and then do a total word count
and then after all your edits,
see how long it is after that
and then put together a ratio
of how much stuff you end up cutting,
hits, like leaves, lives on the cutting room floor
after that, right?
And then you could see maybe how many words,
you can see what I'm saying, right?
How many words that you write every day
on average, make it to the end of product?
Yeah.
And then you see how productive that day really was.
Yeah, but...
And then there'd be another metric by Wish to Evaluate.
Obviously, I'm not a writer, we're just coming up
and this is probably bad for a number of reasons.
You don't want to do anything that would,
or at least I don't want to do anything
where the numbers matter more
than what's actually on the page, right?
Or I wouldn't want to be like,
oh man, I cut a thousand words from that week
so that was obviously a bad week when like,
no, cutting those thousand words
actually made the book significantly better, you know?
So that should be counted as thousand word win.
Yeah, sometimes cutting more words
makes your writing a lot better than it was previously.
Yeah, often.
And then sometimes you'll write something
that you barely need to cut anything from, it's great.
So that you can't really judge.
Maybe the takeaway here is that we're lucky
that people aren't paid by the word on what they write.
Oh, there you are.
Wait, really?
If you write short stories, yes,
all the markets pay you by the word.
So you have an incentive to make it...
That's like getting like a, you know,
whatever, three-page minimum on a paper at school.
And it's like, this is a great two pages.
I'd be happy to use longer words and filler sentences.
I mean, but there's also the thing
where the more filler you use, the worse it is.
So first of all, it'll be a worse experience
for your reader.
And second of all, you're unless until you're like
a really big name where they'll buy your shit
no matter what, there's the greater chance
that the editor will just be like,
no, this isn't good enough.
You've obviously got like something good in here,
but it's surrounded by so much turd word that I'm not gonna buy it.
So that's two short stories, but maybe not for like novels.
With novels, you get in advance
and then you get, you know, a portion of what you sell.
Oh, good.
Because it's very plausible to think
that Robert Jordan, the author of The Wheel of Time,
got paid by the word for the middle.
No, they haven't been doing that since Dickinson's time.
It was like the book series is 15 books long
and it could have easily been 10 or 11,
which sucks because a lot of it's so strong and good.
And then there's like a few books in the middle
where it's like, holy shit, come on, man.
Here's the thing, writers don't get paid by the word
when they write novels, technically.
But they kind of get paid by the book.
Yes.
And series sell better.
And once you have someone like in for a multi book series,
they tend to keep going with the series,
no matter what you do, which is why lots of series
get dragged out way longer than they ever should have been.
It's the same reason sitcoms and TV shows generally go
for many years past when they should have gone
because people will continue to watch
so they continue raking money.
Until they finally get canceled, yeah.
Exactly.
And then they get worse and worse.
Yeah.
Like the last three seasons of House.
Right.
And so yeah, there's a number of series out there
where I'm like, I don't think you need this many books
to tell this story, but I realize
that you like having your mortgage paid.
So.
Well, good on Christopher Palloni for stopping at four books
with his inheritance cycle.
Right.
And I think, you know, J.K. Rowling had the seven,
