Those are analogous enough to make sense.
I do see how one is being not positive.
I don't think one is being not realistic.
Yeah, I don't have much to say about, um, you're not hiring the top 1%.
I did want to highlight that there was a comment from someone called kickstand
that said, consider this, 99% of the human population knows nothing about
programming, thus any programmer you hire is in the top 1%, which is a little bit
more positive or a little bit more, uh, kind of puts it again, like in, in a
different context.
I think what it has to do with rationality, why it's included in the
sequences is because it does point out the fact that people aren't thinking, I
guess, to fall back to this term, they have a bad map of the world where they
assume that since they have these 100 candidates and they picked the one best
one, they're hiring the top 1% without looking at the, the greater territory
and seeing what, what the representative set representative sample actually is,
right?
And rationality is a way to, you know, reevaluate what you're seeing and try
to really see it in the greater context so that you're not fooling yourself.
Yeah.
At the very least, just understanding, I think there's also a kind of a
precondition that's never made explicit because it's almost never necessary in
the sequences, but a pre-occurator for being a better rationalist than me is
like some math skills.
Like if you don't know enough about probability theory to follow exactly why
that's the case, then, then Eleazar might say, look, grab a math book and get
caught up.
Well, it's, it's, it's not even math.
It's pretty simple.
Once someone points out to you that, look, it's just the same terrible 199
people all the time.
So the top one isn't really the best.
It's just better than those people.
It's, um, it's just a way of stepping back and looking harder as opposed to
taking things at face value, I guess.
Is there any example that we can use in our real lives since we're not
hiring people for this?
Kind of thinking that like it, it's a fun thought experiment.
How would you actually munchkin the job market?
Is it like, okay, we need to just snipe people from other companies because
like, you know, if, if they're already being hired, so they're taken out of
the job pool well.
Well, I mean, good luck.
Cause I mean, y'all, all the best people are going to be working at Google and
Facebook and all the big four, right?
So go try to find undiscovered people who aren't in the job market, give them
an offer.
Most people do try to hire away from other companies.
Yeah, but you're never going to hire away from Google because they're going
to pay $60,000 more a year than you are.
So there's the thing that like, once you're in a relationship, that's
when people actually want to start dating you or something, right?
Yeah.
Same with the same with having a job.
Yeah.
So I'd easily find a job when you have one.
Maybe it's, maybe it's for the exact same reason.
Maybe people know this.
Well, no, I think it's that.
Maybe you're confident because you don't need a job now, you know, whatever.
But the other thing is that somebody else has already taken a risk on you and
said, oh, okay, they're, they're safe enough that, you know, if someone
else is already, you know, either paying them to work there or dating them, then
they can't be all that bad.
So that's already weeded out a lot of the bad people for me.
Yeah, social proof.
Yeah.
I guess I just realized the social proof for dating and for a job market is the
exact same thing in that context.
Okay.
So that was our sequences for this week.
For next time, we will be talking about policy debates should not appear one
sided and Birch's law.
And there will be links to both of those on our website, which is the
basin conspiracy.com.
That sounds right.
Okay.
I'm having a brain fart right now.
I'm sorry.
I'm going to edit that.
So I do not sound nearly so stupid.
Not again.
I thought it was funny.
And my response was knowing that you're having a brain fart and playing along.
Son of a bitch.
Want to listen to feedback?
Yeah, why not?
Unless we want to do this video game talking thing.
Nah, I guess there was one small thing.
Actually, I've got a little section in the notes for video games because it's
literally one bullet point.
Steven's video game, Connor.
That's right.
Yeah, Stanley died a couple of weeks ago, which is a huge bummer.
And I had played through the Spider-Man PS4 game a couple of months ago.
And it was fun.
That's probably, I don't know, three out of five.
It was fun to play, fun to look at, good story, but like kind of repetitive.
A lot of weird like bizarre, like these were the side quests where they felt
like just, you know, ridiculous sidetracking work.
And it's like, why are you literally spending time catching pigeons when
there's a side quest to catch pigeons for a crazy
homeless person?
So, yeah, is it just to be nice to the homeless guy?
Yeah.
And for whatever reason, the Spider-Man's personal phone number.
I'm not really, maybe he's relevant in the comics or something.
But anyway, does he eat these pigeons?
No, he names them and stuff.
I don't know if he eats them and it's pretty fucked up.
You're helping feed the homeless guy, man.
Anyway, Stanley had a cameo in that game, which I didn't see coming.
Peter and MJ had this little diner and then they're like kind of like
they're apparently in the point in the game.
It's eight years after he got his spider bites.
None of this like, you know, preamble stuff.
This is also after Infinity War, because there's Avengers Tower and stuff.
And they're anyway, they he has to run out to go chase the police cars.
And then the line cook that you only like kind of saw like his shirt from
the camera angle before he was like, I'm so glad the two of you are back together again.
You always were my favorite.
And it looks at him and it's exactly looks like him.
And it was him doing the voice.
Cool.
So it's fun that he had a cameo in there.
And I like to think that that was like a line that he actually believed.
Like they, you know, that was always his favorite couple, maybe in his in his stories.
Anyway, Stanley seemed like a genuinely great dude and it's a bummer that he's dead.
So, yeah, yeah.
There were so many great stories about him that came out after that, like that
I just didn't even know about, like how, you know, connected he was to his fans.
Yeah, I don't think he's ever the kind of guy that got like too big for his
britches or hated being bothered.
You know, he was a guy with a schedule and probably couldn't like stop
and talk to everybody for half an hour.
But I think he went to conventions and stuff because he knew that it was important
to people, you know, to say hi.
So anyway, seemed like a down-to-earth dude.
And I like that he genuinely loved the things that he made, too.
And like, yeah, that makes no difference.
Not in the way that strangled them to death either.
Totally.
Rachel and my my fiance and I are talking about the people who were in
Twilight apparently hated those movies.
Robert Pattinson, the guy who played Cedric Diggory, actually.
Well, they were all directed to behave like weird robot people.
Yeah, no, I mean, it doesn't make them look good as actors.
Oh, no, I'm sure it was garbage and like to work for.
And like, I saw one of the movies that was terrible, like all that aside,
though, I know that they've been at least Robert Pattinson has been pretty
vocal about how much he hated working on these movies and how bad they are.
But I feel like and maybe it's a bad example.
I was just thinking of somebody who talks negatively of what they did.
You know, he could have said it was great working with people I worked with or
something, but maybe they all sucked.
Maybe that's not a relevant point at all.
Other than some people don't love what they do and it comes out, right?
If I do love what you do, people are excited about that.
Man, I don't unless you jump on a very popular hate train like Twilight.
Right.
Like, why is he hating on Twilight?
It gave him a hell of a paycheck.
It made his name really big.
And there's, you know, fans of the movies that enjoy them because they just
like the movies.
Yeah, I wonder what his hate on the movies does to the fans who like the movies.
Right.
Yeah, don't don't be a jerk, man.
I saw the guy who I recently watched a short YouTube video about the making
of the Super Mario Brothers movie, which yeah, fucking train wreck turns out.
I mean, the movie itself was off.
Really? Well, it's good and scary quotes.
Right. It's a good, bad movie.
But the guy who played Mario, a great, bad movie.
Yes. Yes. So entertaining.
But the guy who played Mario, yeah, but apparently the whole set was a wreck.
People hated each other.
They people started drinking on the job because they're like, this is awful.
How are we going to get through this day? Wow.
But the guy who played Mario years later, he was like a pretty like
classically trained British actor, you know, got a bunch of good roles.
Someone was interviewing him in your life and they asked him like,
what is one thing you regret about your life?
And he was like, Super Mario Brothers movie.
OK, what is what was the least great thing that you ever worked on?
Super Mario's movie. OK, all right.
If you could go back and change one thing in your life, what would it be?
He's like, I wouldn't have done a Super Mario movie.
He really, really hated that.
And I mean, that I think is a legit complaint as opposed to Twilight,
which has some artistic merit and fans and, you know,
a lot of good came of that movie for the people involved in it.
Yeah, I think it's it's got to be a bizarre situation of working on a movie
with people who like you're not getting along with.
I do this thing now when I'm watching TV and especially if I'm seeing like a rerun,
you know, that feeling like when you're at the movie theater and you're like
immersed and you're not you're not you in the movie theater,
you're you're just having the experience of the movie.
And then whatever it is, you somebody in the audience laughs or whatever.
And you kind of pulled out and you're like, oh, I'm in the movie theater
and I'm watching the movies and like I'm seeing light on a screen
