Yeah, okay.
They absolutely did the right thing
by making him unable to be violent anymore.
And I do not give a fuck if now he can't enjoy Beethoven
or now he doesn't have the ability to defend himself
when someone wants to beat him up.
If we have.
I kind of care about that letter thing.
You know, maybe he shouldn't have murdered people
and been randomly violent and raped people.
Once you've gotten to that point,
society has a vested interest in making sure
you can't do that anymore.
Yeah, but you put them in prison.
I mean, you can put them in prison
or you can subject them to this treatment,
which will actually let them be productive members
of society again.
And will ensure that they aren't able to be violent,
which they still could if they got out of prison.
They can be violent to other prison inmates.
I mean, there's, I think.
But idealistically, one of the four things
that prison is supposed to be able to do
is remove people, dangerous people from the population.
Yeah.
So it's like, we can't fix you because we don't have the tools.
Right.
Whether it's the psychology tools or the drugs or whatever.
We can't make you better.
Yeah.
But we can take you away so you minimize the harm you can do.
Yes.
And they actually could make him better.
And there's a lot of people like,
Oh, free will or whatever.
I'm in like the fuck free will, man.
The problem is they didn't make him better though.
They basically tortured him and he kind of continues
to be tortured the rest of his life, which I don't agree with.
If they had actually, you know, if the movie had been different
and they kind of, you know, changed his preferences.
So now he likes being a good citizen and that would be cool.
He's not tortured, tortured though.
He just can't engage in violence anymore
and can't listen to Beethoven.
The like conditioning process definitely was tortured.
They like pulled his eyes open and.
You're allowed to be tortured for a few days
if you've murdered and raped people.
Especially if it makes you be able to be in society again.
See, I would put another shelling fence around torture
where I don't think you should ever torture anyone.
And it's for the same reasons that you might, you know,
not want to give everyone DMT, I think.
I basically agree with you.
But if it, if it comes to the point where you have,
you have done certain things and this will fix you,
then it's more like a surgery than like torture.
Yeah, I think surgery is also very painful, you know,
but then you can, you can agree to surgery or something.
But yeah, maybe if you didn't want to, like maybe.
But he did actually agree to it in the movie.
Are you being held down while they gave you a shot
that like just gave you compassion again
because you never had that?
Like that might be an uncomfortable experience,
but that's different than being tortured for days.
Yeah, he wasn't given compassion.
He was just made to be in incredible discomfort
whenever he got an urge to do something.
Interesting.
And that's one way to keep somebody in check.
Right.
And it worked.
So, but you know, if you had, if you had the switch that,
if you had two syringes,
one which would make him super uncomfortable
whenever he had an urge to do something bad,
or one that would make him happy
whenever he had an urge to do something good,
you'd probably give him the second one.
Yes, absolutely.
So, if you have better tools, you use those.
But maybe they were using what they had.
Yeah.
No, I think they had prison in that world.
They could have just thrown him in prison.
I'm not sure prison's a better option.
Prison is pretty fucking torturous itself.
Actually, that's a good point.
And costs a lot of money.
Swedish prison.
My only thing on the only thing I'll touch on prison
there wise is that I always make an effort
to keep the economic arguments aside
from the moral arguments.
Like how much it costs doesn't matter on how good it is.
I get that there's a cost that we have pay for.
That was always my thing with the death penalty.
Even before I came...
I was undecided on the death penalty for a long time.
But even before I came down on it, I was like,
no, we're not looking at the dollar amount
on keeping these people alive versus killing them.
That's not the moral question.
That's just the dollar amount of how much it costs.
If it was cheaper, that would be the better thing to do.
Morally, no.
Morals are more high-falutin' than the economics of it.
Granted, if it was bankrupting the country
to do something or whatever,
and people were starving, fine, make it absurd.
But it's not that absurd yet.
Anyway.
So, yeah.
Anyways, people, in my opinion,
people who have fucked up the social contract
could be subject to DMT to make them better people.
But I wouldn't want to just arbitrarily do it
to everyone without their consent.
Because some people haven't ever taken DMT,
don't want to take DMT, and are still decent people.
Yeah, that said.
Okay, last thing on that.
Well, now fuck it.
I was gonna just name an evil person,
you know, like Uday Hussein or something.
If we could grab him and put him in a room for a week
with a bunch of MDMA, a bunch of DMT, and a bunch of LSD,
and then just see if he has a better person at the end of it,
would that be an okay experiment to do?
Yeah, sure.
He's tortured a lot of people in death.
But he wouldn't.
He's like a monster who would ride up to people's weddings
and rape the bride and then cut her off
and feed her to his dogs.
Like, his dad was Saddam Hussein.
He didn't have a chance.
So, like, his free will is not really coming into...
It's like...
Yes, in his case, I think that's totally a legit...
experiment to run.
Yeah, I don't think it would have the effect
that people think it would have.
I don't think DMT can change someone that much.
I think after a week he'd go right back to being Uday Hussein.
Yeah, I think people have to be open to change.
Yeah.
To, like, themselves changing in order to change.
There's a lot of people that do a lot of drugs
and they don't change as people.
And there's a lot of people who do,
but I think those are the people who are looking to change.
But that being said,
I don't think there's a moral prohibition
against forcefully changing people to stop being monsters.
We don't want monsters.
It's okay for us to use force to stop monstrosity.
I think where I'm having trouble
is the idea of punishing someone.
It's kind of...
It feels like the same kind of justification people would use
for torturing someone for doing something bad.
Right, but I'm not doing it...
Or I'm not advocating this in order to punish him.
I'm advocating this in order to reduce
the total amount of monstrosity in the world.
Like punching Nazis?
I don't think punching Nazis has that effect.
But if it did, if we'd been...
Oh, that was the conclusion who came to, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah, right, yeah.
All right.
And I started coming from it.
I didn't bring this up as something I was being supportive of.
I was just kind of thinking of it.
And you brought up a good point that
I think people who want to change
might be more open after trying these things.
But if they don't, they don't, right?
And I recently got some evidence for this
by asking somebody who I knew had tried LSD
several times in their youth
and they're not youthful anymore.
And they're still, I don't know,
standard conservative bigot style.
Like, you know,
not a big fan of gay people,
not a big fan of minorities, whatever.
And I was curious, I basically wanted to check,
did you ever try LSD as a kid?
And they're like, oh yeah,
a bunch of times as a teenager in 20s and something.
And I was like, oh.
So it doesn't automatically make you
a more like inclusive understanding person.
Maybe made them more,
