They might be really enjoying it.
And that's like.
Dedicating their lives.
Yeah.
Doing push-ups since they were fetus.
It was much more of an amateur thing back then.
Well, I would, it probably wasn't even an amateur thing.
It's just that people go to really ridiculous lengths
in some Olympic competitions.
Now that is your life, and you have to be like,
of the highest percentile of genetic specimen
with the perfect body type for that thing.
And yeah, there's a lot more to it.
Yeah, maybe the difference was six years ago,
you still had to have a day job or something.
So like you ran like on your off hours,
but you still worked an eight to five.
Yeah, I wonder what a lot of the difference is actually,
and whether we're going to continue to see the trends.
I mean, there has to be like a ceiling at some point,
unless we start genetically engineering people,
or, you know, providing robotic augmentations.
Have you seen the latest Slates are Codex post?
Which one?
The one about diminishing returns
from exponential increase in inputs?
Oh, no.
Okay, the latest POTUS is about how we keep getting
less and less returns from more and more effort put into things.
Oh, was that about science though?
Yes.
Yeah, okay, I did read that one.
Okay, that had the chart of the like marathon times
and other things.
Like there are a lot of gains initially,
and now it's like leveling off,
where now new records are broken by 1,000th of a second increase
over previous records, right?
It's harder to eke out any more advantage,
because everything is being exploited more or less to the max,
in at least ways that we found so far.
That's kind of trailing off.
That's pretty interesting.
Yeah, it would be kind of fun though,
to see what else we could find,
like some kind of weird like ketogenic diet too, or,
I don't know, I don't even know.
I'll resubmit my in favor position
of a separate league of Olympians or sports,
the people who are allowed to take all the drugs and-
Get all the surgeries.
All the surgeries and all of the genetic modifications
that parents can give them,
and just have this race of super mutants
playing baseball and football.
And then if we want, we can still have human football,
but I think it'd be just amazing to see somebody who could make-
They'd have to make bigger football fields,
they'd have to make bigger diamonds,
they'd have to have robots throwing these balls,
or whatever, harder bats.
They'd have to be like 17774,
where they're playing football across the entire United States.
Yes.
Baseball, the giant mechs.
But there's also been some increase in technology.
Like the running surfaces take less energy away now.
Yeah, there's better sneakers.
Better shoes, yeah.
Like sportswear.
There's better diets again, like-
They've had to, oh, they had to outlaw, not outlaw,
make against the rules the certain,
what do you call, the game where they shuffle boarded on ice.
Oh, I know you're talking about curling.
Yeah, you struggle with the name,
because curling doesn't make any fucking sense
for the name of what they're doing.
Right.
Okay, so that, yeah.
In curling, there's-
I think there's a great reason it's called that,
but if you told me something that's called curling,
I'd be like, oh, that's like lifting weights.
I always thought of somebody entering themselves.
It's not running in front of like a little ball on,
or a little puck on ice and brushing ice in front of it.
Or maybe like throwing something in a curve or something.
Yeah.
But no, curling, they had to make the new brooms
take them out of competition because they were so good.
Anyone could stop, or anyone, you know,
with enough training and professionalism
could stop the thing exactly where they wanted every single time.
And the athletes were actually complaining,
this isn't any fun anymore.
We can always do exactly what we want.
There's no sport to it.
They had to make rules about what you can make your swimsuit out of
for the swimming competitions,
because the newer ones were just giving too much of an advantage.
So, yeah.
There's a number of things that change, have changed.
Something that's kind of arbitrary too.
I find that funny.
Like I was just talking about diets,
but it's like you can like, you know,
do some kind of weird crazy diet,
but you can't take drugs.
But what's the difference?
And you can train in a low oxygen environment,
like up here in Colorado, we're a mile high,
or in the tents that they have that have really low oxygen.
So your body slowly builds up more red blood cells.
And then when you go out into the actual arena
where they're competing,
there's a lot more oxygen than what your body is
already adapted for.
So you have an advantage, right?
But you can't blood dope.
But you can't blood dope.
That's exactly the example I was going to bring up.
It's like you can artificially blood dope with hard work,
but you can't just like have some blood boy give you,
you know, a bag of a pint the week before the competition.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A kind of sadder and more controversial example
is trans athletes.
Yeah.
I think there's a bit to unpack there.
Part of it is that to the extent that there are
or might be physical differences between
between genetically male and genetically female bodies,
that if you have a genetically male body who,
and I think part of it too is the only context I've heard
about this really talks about in is fighting
because Joe Rogan's talked about it a couple of times,
who I don't listen to that much,
but it's come up a couple of times.
If you have a person who was assigned at birth male
and transition or is like depending
where they're at in the transition
or if they're if they're taking supplements
or whether they're not or something,
they can apparently according to people who
measure how hard people can hit,
can hit harder than than many women on average,
including many women who fight.
So like that's, you know, a larger body.
Yeah.
Different muscles and different skeletal.
Yeah.
Longer arms and like that's going to give
all the difference.
So it's kind of just like, do you want to let,
I think you get kind of annoyed people from at least
three or four sides because it's like, look,
this one person's going to crush everybody
by a margin that makes us like not really fun to watch.
And yeah, I don't know.
There's not a really good analog for that.
And I don't watch a lot of sports.
I can't think of anything.
So.
Well, there's weight classes.
It's kind of like, you know,
putting someone in a lower weight class
and making them fight someone of a higher weight class.
That's it.
And I feel like that could actually resolve the conflict,
do away with men's and women's sports,
but then people will be like, oh no,
what if, you know, sexual things happen accidentally?
There's also, there's people that are intersex.
Why is there never a problem
where guys are accidentally raping each other
when they're boxing or wrestling, right?
They are, but it's part of the game.
Yeah.
I've watched the mixed martial arts.
It gets real.
It's real sausage.
If you pop a boner while wrestling a guy,
it's like, oh, that just happened.
But if it's to the girl, it's assault.
Oh, okay.
This is probably, that's an obviously off-color joke.
But I think.
They don't generally pop boners at MMA's.
I don't know what kind of fighting competitions
you're watching.
Yeah.
There's also people that are intersex,
which is kind of fun.
Cause then it's like, what, you know,
how do you classify them?
Because, and then like,
it just gets back to the fluidity of gender too.
I mean, people can transition at different ages too.
