and kind of just like that distance to it.
I've been for fun kind of amping that up when watching things.
And I love watching like people act and this is totally not relevant to anything.
But it's just I was doing this last night because it was somebody like kicking
stuff around on a on a set like as part of the joke.
But things were happening, you know, if you're kicking props,
they're not going to always do the same thing.
So like the jokes that you're making about that are all like, you know,
in the moment and that chemistry has to be like real appropriate and like aware.
And like everyone I got, I've been appreciating the skill of acting.
I think is what I've been doing.
Cool. But I can't imagine trying to do that with people that you fucking hate it.
That's bizarre. Anyway, I kind of want to watch the Super Mario Bros.
movie again. Speaking of wastes of time.
Yeah. OK, we're we're doing a podcast, right?
We are doing a podcast.
Let's move on to listener feedback.
Bum, bum, bum. OK.
Well, there is a longer quote by Sun Derive, which was I don't even remember
what episode this was from.
I'm not going to read the whole quote because it's long.
There was a lot of it.
I think this would have been from the culture war 2.0.
OK, they did want to say first, I'd like to caution against what I perceive
as an increase in bashing of non-rationalists for having biases.
Everyone has biases.
The vast majority are unaware of the majority of the biases
and haven't put any effort into learning about it.
That's not surprising.
That is why we care about raising the sanity water line.
It's like bashing people for not getting the God question right.
It feels like bashing on children.
So first of all, I want to say yes, that is true.
Point well received.
That also gets a good solid dig and those stupid religious people.
OK, but it is.
I think, in fact, I talked with Jess about this a couple of weeks ago,
we went out and I was pretty like, I don't know, ardent atheist for the first
few years that I discovered it and read the God delusion.
And, you know, I think everybody goes through the asshole atheist phase
when they first did Convert.
I had like 10 years of that.
Yeah, you know, it was and it was bonding, man.
Yeah, you bond with people and the part of why it was fun is the debates
were so easy because there was three arguments people would make,
you know, so you would just get really good.
And it was kind of like, yeah, like fighting kids.
Do the best.
But that sounds mean.
It's not sitting on religious people.
I do. I do think that religions aren't true, but I don't give anyone shit about it anymore.
I still remember the what was it?
The forums that I was on.
Yeah, what was it called?
Fuck, I don't remember.
Reggie was the name of the the the the there wasn't even podcasting back then,
just guy who did things online.
But he had a forum and there was a guy named Todd Todes angst,
who I loved, who was just really a Serbic and would always be kind of
asshole-ish to people, right?
But and people would say, like, that's an ad hominem attack.
He's like, no, it's not.
If I were to say you're stupid and that's why your argument is wrong,
that's an ad hominem, because that doesn't mean your arguments wrong.
When I say you're stupid, that's just an insult.
You are the best.
That's a good quote, too.
But there was this one guy called Geek for Christ,
who whose avatar was the little cucumber from the Veggie Tales show.
And he came in there and he was all enthusiastic about Christ.
And we were just arguing with him.
And after several weeks, he started to have doubts.
And after like a couple of months, he was like,
think you guys may have a point about this whole God thing.
I was like, holy shit, it worked.
Oh, my God.
It was the coolest thing.
I was surprised that that kind of brow beating would work.
But I guess somebody who's open with those up to that.
It wasn't just brow beating.
It was like a lot of debate.
And some of it was a bit heated, you know, and every now and then
Tata Sengs would walk in and do his thing.
But he also made really good points, you know?
Yeah, kind of like Richard Dawkins style to doing that.
I suppose.
Yeah, he doesn't really worry about playing nice, but he's not an asshole.
Yeah, yeah, I like that, especially like if someone's coming in and just
it's like a good Reddit thread, which are rarer and rarer,
but it depends on the subreddit.
But some of the come in.
I like no stupid questions.
One of my favorites, because people will typically answer like, hey,
yeah, why can't you eat dirt?
That's a really good question.
And they'll explain why.
So like if someone came on to this forum that you're talking about, it's like,
hey, you know, what do you guys have to say about the resurrection?
I thought that was really compelling.
And you're like, well, here's all the reasons we don't find it compelling.
And they're like, oh, no one's ever mentioned that in Bible study.
So maybe that's the way that it kind of worked.
I've heard that it works.
It depends on the person.
Some people get converted with getting attacked or deconverted, rather.
Or and some people, it has to be like the, you know, the, what is it?
Carrier stick.
That's the wrong thing.
Love, honey, getting the flies.
What am I trying to say?
Yeah.
Yeah, I love bombing.
There's something to that.
I was at a, I brought this up on the podcast.
It's been like at least a year.
So I can do it again.
Um, I was at one of James Randi's annual conferences in like 2008 or nine.
And, uh, Phil plate, the astronomer actually lives in Boulder.
The infamous don't be a dick.
Yeah.
Which was somehow infamous.
He gave a 30 minute talk that ended up being titled, don't be a dick.
And one of the things that he did at the beginning was like, hey, who in here
used to believe something like Bigfoot or aliens or whatever.
And a lot of hands go up.
All right.
Now how many of you stopped, stopped believing because somebody got in your
face and called you an idiot and, you know, whatever shouted at you and only
one person left their hand up when it was Paul prevents or the comedian.
And the next day he explained to the person who shouted at him was
Penn Gillette, but so that aside, screaming at people and saying, you're
a fucking idiot, doesn't change their mind.
Yeah, but it's not necessarily screaming at someone and saying you're
a fucking idiot because most people don't do that, but it's being mocked for
being naive.
Like that's how everyone stopped believing in Santa, right?
All their friends were like, oh my God, you still believe in Santa?
Look at the baby.
And then you're like embarrassed.
And yeah, you go back to like, well, dad, what about the Santa thing?
And they're like, oh, shit, just, just don't tell your little brother.
It's weird.
Maybe it's only because I was thinking about it.
Don't be a dick thing, but there's got to be a nicer way to do that.
Oh yeah.
I mean, there's nice ways to do it too.
I'm just both work in different situations.
They do.
And both don't work in certain situations.
Yeah.
So I guess there's a lot of people who'll be like, fuck you.
You're going to come at me.
I'm going to come at you.
Yeah.
Places where it wouldn't work is where there's not enough shame for
believing whatever the thing is, right?
So like, if you're a climate change denialist, you're not going to shame them
in changing their mind because they've got a lot of people to go back and give
them support, right?
It's weird though, because religious people have a lot of people to go back
and give them support about the whole Christ thing too.
I think, I think it works more when there's already like a seed of doubt
somewhere inside them.
Yeah, that's the difference is that the people who are coming to forums
and asking questions are already having questions.
But yeah, the drive for curiosity is a big helper there.
Anyway, weren't we responding to a feedback?
Oh, yes.
Okay.
So the thing that I actually wanted to respond to was, Ines jokes that debates
is like rap battle for intellectuals.
By doing that, there's an implicit statement that people who do rap
battles are dumb when it in fact requires both a lot of training and quick
thinking to do well in those people who do rap battles are stereotypically
black and there's already an existing stereotype of black people being less
intelligent so the damage gets amplified by confirmation bias.
And oh, dear God, that is not at all what I meant.
And I was going to like reply with a whole big thing, but being in part
apologetic, because obviously I did not correctly communicate what I was thinking
when I said that, if that's what he took away from it, that is not his fault.
It's in part at least mine for not being clear.
But someone replied for me, here it is, before I could get to it.
Sol21,000 said, to defend Ines's comment, rap battles and sports debates are similar
and that they're both suboptimal at finding out what they purport to find out.
The sports debates tend not to revolve around to truth too closely,
and a strong case could be made that rap battles don't do a good job of providing
more intelligent lyricism.
They tend to favor traits like humor, novelty, should I read the, okay.
They tend to favor traits like humor compared dumbfounded against tantrum
during their classic grind time battle.
Novelty, Stolkon being Jewish and having a really low voice.
And spectacle, every single prop moment over long form traits like storytelling
or rhyme scheme flexibility, which come out more in written rhymes.
This isn't even getting into biasing effect charisma and reputation have on judging in both
arenas.
So a common thread is that they're the inferior form of a not dumb art rather than simply dumb
forms of art.
And basically, yes, that, that I was not trying to say that debating is like a rap
battle because it's dumb like rap battles are dumb, which dumb black people do.
What I was trying to say is when you're having a rap battle, you are performing for an
