to weed out bad material that like good rationalists should.
It doesn't require evidence.
And you can still have debates now about like, is dualism true?
Here's this, read this cool new paper.
So, and this is something that they teach you in all the classes
and that you find in a lot of the books that unless you're ready,
just like to pick a side and basically say,
I'm just going to stop listening to the other side.
You have to kind of just take as a, and this is oversimplifying,
but hey, these are all open questions.
And that's not like, so I think Ychowsky's disdain is like,
fuck that, we've been talking about these for thousands of years.
We've got some settled answers on a lot of these questions.
Right.
And you know, these are not as open as they should be,
or as open as you guys pretend that they are.
So.
You know what finally settled the atomism versus four elements?
Debate, fucking science.
Right.
Yeah.
You wouldn't know it from the media.
They love those four elements.
I hate the elements.
Like, it makes me so mad.
And I love like, Avatar Last Airbender.
And I also like that they don't take the whole four elements thing that seriously.
Like, it's obviously, they're using it as a pot device.
That's why like, I actually, am I talking about this?
I didn't like Cora as much because they started taking the mysticism way more seriously.
It felt like.
I liked the beginning, like how Cora started in that it was,
I don't know, like 60 years later or something.
And they had started abusing the bending powers to like,
what was it?
Who were the benders that could do electricity?
Fire benders, right?
I probably.
They just had like cores upon cores of fire benders,
basically working as the generators for an electric city's electric grid.
I was like, that is fucking sweet.
You know, powering water wheels as a water bender.
You could be moving.
They industrialized their magic as any good society would.
That's kind of awesome.
Yeah.
That part was awesome.
Yeah.
But I didn't like Cora very much either.
I didn't see Cora yet.
I mean, maybe I should skip it.
There's, there's some people that swear by it.
I watched the first season and then I just gave up.
And a few years later, someone said, what?
That was the one shitty season.
Once you get past that one, they get better.
I'm like, God damn it.
I'm not going to go back.
I've given up on it already.
On the plus side with cartoon seasons, it's typically 2020 22 minute episodes.
Yeah.
But like avatar, the first avatar was good from like the get go.
It was a lot of fun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then it just kept getting better.
Yeah.
I really loved all of it.
Avatar was great.
And it even like had a surprising amount of like good emotional tugs for like, you know,
11 year olds throwing fireballs at each other.
Right.
So I thought it was a good show.
It was so well written.
But yeah, there's, I think it's the same team.
We're all at some of the same writers that worked on avatar.
They came out with a new show called The Dragon Prince.
I might be getting that wrong.
I've heard of this.
But actually, I watched the first season.
It's on Netflix.
It is good, but they started out with saying like,
the world is made of four elements again and they make up four different elements.
And it's just like, can we stop?
It's not compelling anymore.
Why would they make?
I find it annoying.
Why would they make four different elements?
Because everybody got sick of the classic one.
So they're like, we'll pick four more arbitrary things like ice.
But that's just, yeah.
I think one of them, I forget.
So it shows how like much disdain I had for this magic system
that I just don't even remember what the elements were.
It's like adding new Pokemon with new Pokemon types in later games.
Right.
Yeah.
Hey, it's the same idea, but different.
Yeah.
Although that had like a game behind it that they were trying to make more complex.
Yeah. And it worked for that.
I was kind of being tongue-in-cheek.
Okay, wait.
Can I just read?
In the magical land of Zadia, magic comes from six primal sources.
The sun, moon, stars, sky, earth, and ocean.
The earth and the ocean.
And then human mages create a seventh kind of magic called dark magic.
And they start capturing and harvesting the magic
and they drain all the other kinds of magic.
And it's just like, it made me so mad.
Like, I don't care about any of this.
I'm here for the characters and like the story.
What made me mad there is that sun, sky, and stars are three different elements.
And none of it comes into play.
I mean, maybe it will later, but like, it's basically just that like,
the like, all the other elements are fighting the dark humans.
And I think it's cool that the humans are the evil species and all the other
species are like the good ones.
Finally.
Yeah.
I think it's interesting about something that tells you about their world though.
Like their world might actually be flat with a celestial sphere above them.
And that's, you know, whatever.
And that's, that's all fine.
And you might be right, but I just like the idea that like, okay, cool.
You know, sun in the sky, sun also a star.
Stars.
Okay, whatever.
Fuck me, I guess.
No, I think like, you know, a system like that could have been cool.
I'll, you know, I love fantasy, but you have to actually think through
all the implications of your world.
Like if they're, you are with a flat, how would that affect gravity?
And like, do you fall off the edge?
And of course you fall off the edge.
That's the point of having a flat earth.
Yeah.
But like, you know, a lot of the times they just put stuff in there
because visually they're like, wow, that's cool.
And they don't really think through the implications.
And then there's just all these plot holes.
And you're like, why even put it in there?
If you're not going to use it.
There was the problem on Asgard and the Thor movies
that there was like the big waterfall at the edges.
It's like, where's that the water coming from?
If it's all just falling off the edges all the time.
They literally synthesize it.
Yeah, it's coming from magic.
No, what happens is it evaporates and it goes back up into the space.
Speak no, no, they could have like some kind of fusion furnace
where they actually take nuclear power
and just condense atoms out of it, right?
That or it's coming from literally magic or something
because there's a lot more magic in there
than Thor is willing to acknowledge.
That's basically magic.
Yeah.
Well, that's, yeah.
That said, speaking of Thor, the New God of War game
takes place in Midgard, which is the Norse mythology name for earth.
Which you might have remembered from the first Thor movie
when they're talking about the realms and this and that.
So you visit some of the other realms.
And then this rather than Thor and Odin and stuff
being the kind of happy, go lucky, nice guys.
They're like these total utter monsters.
And it owns this famous torch.
Yeah, it's much more lore, lore friendly as opposed to MCU friendly.
But it was a fun twist.
And I liked that.
So, yeah.
Did you have another one?
Yeah, we've got one here from Kale Silverhand.
Dope name, by the way, on the rest,
on the modesty posts that we talked about.
Yeah.
They had said that,
I feel like the hosts missed a crucial distinction
on updating probabilities based on input from other people.
The basic premise is that when two rational agents meet
and share their data and probabilities,
they should at the end of the interaction have identical probabilities.
One of the examples brought up by the hosts
was that billions of people assign a high probability
to Christianity being true,
so it shouldn't account as evidence for Christianity,
which was pointed out as the flaw in the modesty post.
However, the post specifies rational agents.
There's a lot of people, or excuse me,
there's a lot of evidence that people believe Christianity
is true for non-rational reasons.
Therefore, in my opinion,
it's just not justified to update your beliefs
based on those people.
As flawed rationalists, we can be relatively certain
that no other being we encounter is perfectly rational.
Therefore, we should never update our probabilities purely
on the probabilities given by anyone or anything.
