but not all the way or something.
I think they got to try mushrooms for that.
All right.
I think maybe it's not just a morality inducing drug.
Yeah.
It is an openness inducing drug though,
or at least mushrooms are.
I think LSD is too.
I think so.
That's kind of interesting,
because I do think that high levels of openness
correlate with lower rates of bigotry.
Couldn't high levels of openness
just make you more susceptible
to Nazi propaganda as well,
if that's what you are subjected to?
I think it's openness of experience and understandings.
So it's like.
So you could really understand
about how the subhuman races
are really fucking things up, right?
That's the danger of opening your openness.
That's why I kind of worry about it.
I think we're equivocating the use of the word open.
What we need to do is run some experiments
by taking a nice, peaceful person,
give them LSD,
and then subject them to Nazi propaganda
and see if they become worse.
Well, it does make you open to more ideas,
which you still have to have the kind of mental framework
there of maybe you just have more option generations,
and then you're able to pick the best option
where you wouldn't have generated seven options.
You would have generated three previously,
and that's cool.
But somebody who doesn't have that
can just become a crazy UFO person really easily.
I also meant that kind of as a joke.
Like, I don't think that would be more to do.
But on the other hand,
I would be interested in finding out
if this is actually a thing that would happen.
I feel like Dark Lord Enya,
she's like a force to actually be worried about.
No, I'm just curious.
I'm not dark.
It's a difference.
I just wanted to see what happened.
Yeah.
That was like that Saturday morning
breakfast cereal comic a couple weeks ago where
the wife comes home and she's telling her husband,
honey, it's twins.
And the husband's like, oh, my gosh, this is so great.
We can buy two sets of clothes, two sets of this.
And she's like, yeah, that's why I'm excited.
And then it's like earlier at the doctor
when he's telling her it's twins,
she's like, yes, I have a control group.
All those twin studies I can imagine.
We've got another feedback here from Mordina Mail,
who is our good friend, Matt Freeman,
at the Doof Media Slash.
We've got word podcast.
Hi, Matt.
And this one's on task or management systems
if you wanted to do this one.
Yeah, that's why I got pulled out.
Mordina Mail says, making a task management system
is itself work and takes time.
If you do it right, the work you invest in task management
saves you work slash time later
by optimizing how you spend the rest of your time.
There's a constant trade off.
It's entirely possible to spend too much time
on task management for tasks
that you could have just knocked out in any order.
I like that.
I think that's a good thing to keep in mind.
And there's a fun example for my work
where we use an agile management tool called rally,
which allows you to like visual,
have like virtual boards of like all your stories,
have you have the points available,
all the tasks down to hours, et cetera, et cetera.
And you can get pretty deep with how deep
all this business goes.
And basically the point where it can end up taking
like 30 minutes a day,
which is a not insignificant chunk
of your eight hour work day.
So it's kind of funny that like,
you know, in this sense,
there might be enough of a benefit from it
that management has transparency
into what you're doing and stuff.
But if you're doing that to manage your own personal products,
that seems like a complete waste of time.
Like for example, Rachel and I put together
a Kanban board for our wedding planning.
And it was great,
but we're not doing task hours
and, you know, managing things down to the minutia
because we're just communicating this to ourselves.
Is Bon a, not metaphor, a,
what's the word that means the same thing as?
You're asking if it's an acronym?
No, not acronym, not simile.
I don't know what you're talking about,
the thing that the sources have.
Yes, exactly.
What the fuck is this word?
I'm not sure what you guys are talking about.
There's words that,
there's two words that mean the same thing.
It starts with an S.
Synonyms.
Synonym, thank you.
Is Bon a synonym for pro?
I think Kanban is one word.
It's Japanese.
Yeah, it's Japanese.
Oh, it is.
Okay.
I was about to feel really stupid
having just realized that it's like a pro-Khan list
where the word pro has been replaced with Bon,
so it rhymes.
Oh, that'd be fun.
No.
No.
What's the Japanese word mean?
Oh, I'll find out really quick.
I used to know and I forget.
And I should know, but I don't because who cares?
Because I'm sorry.
I took this entirely off the rails
with this one word that I couldn't think of
because my brain doesn't work today.
No, you're great.
While I look up the definition,
there's a great reminder here that I have for myself
that there was that quote that probably Einstein didn't say,
but people attribute to him,
that never memorize anything that you can look up in a book.
And my version of that is never memorize anything
that you can Google, which is everything.
So why bother committing anything to memory
as long as you remember how to Google it?
Because it does take you less time
to remember a string of numbers than to look them up.
Sometimes.
Yeah, if you use it a lot, you probably do one thing.
It depends on the string.
Yeah, and also when you open your phone,
you can get distracted by lots of other things.
That's why I like to memorize my task list.
No, that's fair.
My thing is pretty tongue-in-cheek.
I still need to memorize some stuff.
It took me an embarrassingly long number of years
to memorize Rachel's phone number.
It took me an embarrassing long number of minutes
to recognize what I remember the word for synonym,
which if I had my phone on me,
I could have just went to thesources.com
and been like, what is it that you provide?
So anyways, you and Rachel have a con bond board for your wedding.
Yeah, but we're not doing it.
We're not tasking it down all the way
to sub tasks and hours and doing all this stuff.
We're doing it at the level that makes sense for us.
Cool.
And so really the point for me was this is sort of like,
this is a task management system thing,
so it's sort of relevant,
although I think it's a bit of a digression
because it's super personal
and not really applicable to anybody else,
but here we are.
Well, I think it is relevant
and I think weddings do tend to be these logistical nightmares.
So the fact that you guys are doing that,
and I think a lot of people probably
do use task management systems for weddings.
Yeah, my idea for the con bond board
was mainly because I knew what it looked like
and I liked the system of having it.
Like, so I think we've got four categories.
We've got like R defined.
Like this is stuff that we understand
like that needs to be worked on,
but we need to get some stuff together
before we can do it.
And there's the ready for work category.
And then there's the,
I don't even know if we have an improv,
oh, there's an in progress category.
And then there's the done category
