audience and you're trying to make people go, oh, shit, and like be entertained by how well
you're like slam this guy or being witty or it's, it's about the spectacle, right.
And it's not, it's not nearly the same thing as putting together something like I'm going
to date myself now, but something that Dre or Nicki Minaj would do or, or I hate to say M&M
because he's the white guy, but he wasn't a pretty damn good rapper in his day.
And they had, he had that movie, seeing the trailer for that is the closest I've ever
come to seeing a rap battle.
So, yeah, so yeah, I mean, that that's a different type of, of working on the musical
art that you can't do in a rap battle.
It requires sitting down and thinking and, and refining things a bit.
And that's what I was trying to say that in a debate, people aren't nearly as concerned
with the truth.
They're concerned with entertaining the audience and getting them go, oh, shit.
And you're like, yeah, poem that guy, you know, that, that sort of thing.
I wasn't trying to say that I wasn't trying to compare it to a rap battle because they're
dumb.
I was trying to compare it in that the point is to entertain the audience as opposed to
get to the truth or write a compelling, beautiful, lyrical song.
You could use another analogy.
What was the Dead Slate Star Codex endeavor where they had people who disagreed?
The adversarial collaboration.
Yes.
So like adversarial collaboration on the one hand versus like the Bill Nye versus Ken Ham
debate.
Right.
Yeah.
Those are not doing the same thing.
Right.
One is is bringing people who disagree together to try and find things that they can agree on
in a confluted subject.
And the other is people delivering canned lines in front of an audience to try and people,
try and expose the other side to hearing their canned lines or getting good digs or
laughs or whatever.
Yeah.
I don't even think they're doing that.
But like Bill Nye versus Ken Ham, it's kind of they're just both just drawing their own
audiences to watch them.
They don't even care about who wins.
They just want to like hear their, their side talk.
I couldn't sit through that.
No.
Um, maybe another example, maybe a less ridiculous debate, but I don't know, two different, like
a theologian in the flop.
Like, you know, the ones like people debating Dawkins and Harris back in the early 2000s,
those seem to be like somewhat good natured and you would draw people in from both sides
and support that or whatever.
But I think there are people who enjoyed watching those that weren't a lot of those.
I love those.
Yeah.
Same.
No, I totally agree.
But those.
But I, I watched them specifically to see that my side get good hits on the other side.
You know, that was why I was watching.
Yeah.
We get so annoyed during the parts with the theologian, like the sophisticated theologian
would talk about like that, you know, tiny technicalities of, you know, the language was
this, but this, and you know, this like cultural context at the time, just like, I don't care.
You're trying to explain to me like something about this book that I don't believe in, and
I don't care about this book, like go and get back to Richard Dawkins or whoever.
I always thought it'd be funny to be like, yeah, but it says here that the dark lord
Charmarquemez is equal and that he'll come back to fight him.
And then lo and behold, in the seventh book, he comes back.
Like, how does that improve the divinity of this?
That's the exact same kind of argument.
How hard is it to write a sequel that confirms that they continue the story of the first book?
Yeah.
Anyway, I know we're on a tangent.
This has been a fun episode.
So I having fun doing it.
I hope everyone's having a fun time listening to us go on tangents.
Yeah.
And just, you know, for the record, I still really love those kinds of sports debates.
They're fun to listen to, much like I also like rap battles, you know.
I actually don't like the sorts of debates anymore.
No, I don't, I don't consider them ways to get to the truth,
but I still find them fun to watch sometimes.
You find a good one, send it my way.
It's been a long time.
Sure.
Yeah, I feel like I've heard all the arguments on both sides,
at least with the atheism ones.
Maybe if I found a different topic.
Yeah, I don't bother with the atheisms anymore,
because like you said, I've seen them all.
Right.
Maybe like AI.
Is it going to doom us all?
That would be fun.
That would be a fun one.
There was a good one.
I think I plugged before.
It was Massimo Piclucci.
He was used to be the co-host on Rationally Speaking.
Did a talking or blogging heads debate with Eleazar Dikowski on
a number of things, but it was partly the AI fume and cryonics and all that stuff.
And that was, that was a lot of fun.
That was a kind of it.
And they were, they were clearly strongly disagreeing in a way
that I found baffling that Massimo was missing some of these points
because he's a smart dude.
Yeah.
But Dikowski gets in a lot, some of those really,
and depending on which side you're on,
maybe you feel Massimo does the same thing.
But Dikowski gets in some of those really good kicks of like,
oh, that felt great.
Don't you feel dumb now?
In moments, but they're still good natured
because I don't think they came out of this hating each other.
Right?
So it was fun.
Okay.
Alrighty.
Did you find yours?
Yeah, I've got it.
It's just sort of long.
So James has been a supporter on Patreon for a while
and he writes in on some of the episodes and on episode 37.
Thank you, James.
Yeah.
Thanks, James.
You rock.
We had a discussion about,
so we were talking about flow states and kind of like,
you know, so that was when he brought up like,
you know, kicking ass like a tar hero.
And so James brings up that the diminishing returns
from conquering something like the tar hero
is because it has an easily definable perfection
where at which point there's nowhere to go.
I'm assuming once you beat Dragon Force
through the fire and the flames,
one of my favorite songs that I liked from that genre,
by the way, I'd love listening to that in the car
back when I used to speed a lot.
But I'm assuming that was the hard mode song, right?
Because that song was super hard to imagine listening to.
That wasn't rock band that was Guitar Hero 3,
I think their final song, but fair enough.
Yeah, I correctly guessed that was one of the hardest
songs in the game because it's so awesome.
So part of, so James goes on to say,
part of what makes athletics so enthralling to me
is that the new heights are being defined
in real time in front of your eyes
and the space of ways in which to improve is so vast
that you can't just point to perfection
at the logical end point.
And I think that's a really good point that
if you master something, you know, again,
by beating the hardest mode of the game or something,
then say, all right, cool, I did it.
And then I guess you can kind of keep doing that
by seeing if you can get a better and better score
or something, but once you've won, you've kind of won.
I have a hard time, like once I finish a game,
going back and finishing side quests and stuff,
because like you're already like overpowered or whatever,
or you feel like you've already completed it.
So like, some instrument playing games were different though,
because even though you could, you know,
beat it on the hardest difficulty,
it was still fun to do.
Even if you could do a song perfect,
it was fun to do it again, perfect.
Totally. And it was like, there was still skill involved,
and just because you could do it perfectly once,
doesn't mean you could do it that way every time,
because it's really hard, that's the point.
But what's fun, I wanted to bring up about the sports thing,
is that you can look at videos of like 1960s Olympics
and just see how ridiculously weak and like,
bad at jumping, well, like they could all beat all of us,
but like, they couldn't jump as far,
they couldn't run as fast,
they couldn't throw things as far.
Compared to now, the athletes of today
would just destroy any Olympian from 60 years ago.
Yeah.
I think that's really fun to think about,
because like James said,
the perfection there isn't really as defined,
and we can watch it grow.
And I remember, I think I saw like a gift second comparison
of 1960s long jump and stuff like that,
compared to now, and I'm like, holy shit.
And of course, they're all wearing like,
they're super polite,
what's the word I'm thinking of,
like covering up clothes, with like, modest.
Yeah. So like, you know, it just looks like,
maybe that's limiting their movement and stuff,
but that's not just it.
They're just people are trying harder
and running way faster now.
So anyway.
Yeah, they're also ruining their lives
by training since childhood.
Well, maybe not ruining their lives.
