Yeah.
A lot of my college professors, I remember doing that too.
And it's, it was interesting because I had college professors that had different
political opinions.
I mean, academia, you know, like you tend to think of it as leaning really liberal
and a lot of them were, but I definitely had this one right wing professor.
And I noticed it a lot more because I tend to be more left leaning.
And he would just, he was like very biased and he would use like his, you know,
personal anecdotes and like his like little jokes that were like kind of jabbing
at the left all the time.
And it was so irritating.
And then I realized that all my like left leaning professors were actually doing
the same thing and I didn't notice it.
I was kind of sitting there chuckling along like, ah, good joke,
professor so-and-so and I was like, wait a minute.
Yeah.
And I know we do that on the podcast sometimes too.
But we don't make an effort about being non, I mean, we, we, we make an effort
to not be political podcasts, but we don't make an effort to be non-partisan.
Right.
Um, and I had a curiosity.
Did you go to a state school or a non-state school?
It was a state school because I, I don't remember any of my professors being,
like, I guess, I mean, I, I was at community college as a liberal arts major.
And then basically psychology is a liberal art.
Although I always like to plug this at CSU.
It's a science class or it's a science major.
So, uh, because most places it's a liberal arts major, but, uh, I don't remember anybody.
I guess I don't remember much of college, but not cause I had a good time
because I was tired, not cause I was partying too much.
Yeah.
No, I was, I was cripplingly depressed.
So it was like five years, kind of like mostly gone.
That's creepy.
Yeah.
Most of my life.
But yeah, I had one, uh, that is weird.
Wait, not, not the crippling depression.
My, you know, tepid, tepid depression.
But my, I think I've been on this tangent before, but, um, my, like confidence
in my autobiographical memory went really down when I learned about Elizabeth
loftists, loftists research on how easy it is to fake memories.
And then I realized that maybe I had some realization where I discovered
that one of my memories was fake and ever since then I stopped trusting them.
So I guess I've been in the background of recycling them all into the bullshit
bucket and they've all been thrown out.
But it's amazing how much I've forgotten of stuff, but it's not like nothing
that's ever happened to you actually happened, man.
But it's not like I forgot like addresses or like, you know, people or something.
It's just like, if you asked me to name a memory from all 11th grade,
I would struggle to find one.
Like if you showed me a picture, I'd like, oh, I remember that, but I don't
have anything sorted that way in my head.
Well, I don't think normally people don't just randomly recall things anyway.
Memories are sparked by something else that's happening.
When you're meditating, well, I release me, but I've heard that this is a
common experience.
I just get random memories that I had completely forgotten.
I get random thoughts, but they're almost never memories.
No, I'd like distinctly get memories from my childhood that I hadn't
remembered up until that point, but they just suddenly come back.
It's really weird.
And it's interesting because it shows that meditation is kind of doing
something, but, uh, we're really derailing this.
Okay.
Uh, I just wanted to point out at the very end, it says, uh, he has a note
that now that he's been named as a co-moderator of overcoming bias, uh, he's,
he's adding the disclaimer that it's just his opinion and not in a statement
of official overcoming bias policy, which I don't know.
I just thought that was kind of neat because it brings it back to the whole,
oh yeah, this was originally posted on someone else's blog as part of a
conversation.
And I would assume they took that line out of overcoming bias AI to zombies.
I don't remember that line being in there.
The what?
I don't remember that line being in there.
Although again, I could have just forgotten it.
Well, it wouldn't make any sense in what is basically a textbook, right?
Yeah.
Um, it might not be in there.
I'm not sure.
I know that in the comments section, Hanson and Yudkowsky went back and
forth a little bit on whether or not it was, you know, appropriate to use
political examples and they, they came back and like, can we at least
agree to like not make points just to get in that nice solid dig about how
dumb your opponents are.
And I was like, oh yeah, totally.
Don't do that.
Um, so I think they, they kind of just hesitated a little bit on the, like how
appropriate is, is political discussion and rationality.
They kind of went back and forth on that, but they were able to agree that like,
let's not be dicks, but I feel like it's a really solid baseline.
There's, there's one core value that my team has at work that we put together.
Cause we, no dicks.
No, it was, it was be excellent to each other.
Oh, yeah, that's fantastic.
Which, which we settled on because don't be a dick.
We had to write these down and put them on a board.
So we didn't want to do that, but.
So that's what it actually secretly means though.
Well, they, they think those mean the same thing, right?
Yeah, I like the, uh, it's more positive and it's more like proactive.
Don't be a dick is a don't thing.
Whereas be excellent is a do thing.
Fair enough.
I feel like they mount to like many of the same behaviors, but you're
right.
One is like more helpful.
I actually don't think they amount to the same behaviors, stopping, doing
things, uh, kind of puts you at a baseline, but like, be excellent means
kind of go above and beyond.
Oh, then we should have, we should have stuck with, don't be a dick.
We're not, we're not, we're not an above and beyond team.
Well, it's aspirational.
Yeah.
That's, well, speaking of aspirations, my daily aspiration at work is to
suck a little less every day, which is I've been told I should have it be, be
a little better every day, but I feel like this is an easier way to motivate
it myself.
So whatever works for you, man.
That's what works.
Our next less strong sequence post is just lose hope already.
How appropriate.
Uh, it gives two examples basically of people who were all in on something and
just kept going all in long past the point of reason.
The more astounding example, which I'll quote here is that LTCM was a, uh, hedge
fund and, uh, LTCM raked in giant profits over its first three years.
And then in 1998, the inefficiencies that they were exploiting started to
vanish.
Other people knew about the trick.
So it stopped working.
LTCM refused to lose hope addicted to 40% annual returns.
They borrowed more and more leverage to exploit tinier and tinier margins.
When everything started to go wrong for LTCM, they had an equity of 2.47
billion leverage of 124.5 billion and derivative positions of 1.25 trillion.
So these are guys that you really should have stopped a long, long time ago
and just refused to give up hope.
So for us non-accounting people, I know what equity is, but I don't know
the difference between leverage and derivative positions.
Uh, leverage would be basically debt that they had took on, uh, in order
to borrow more.
Sure.
Yeah.
Um, derivative positions, I don't know, man.
Well, I was curious because it was like another order of magnitude higher.
Yeah.
And I don't know what the fuck you could do for 1.25 trillion dollars.
I mean, all right.
Well, anyone who wants to know that can know that, I guess.
Yeah.
Anyone who wants to tell us what a derivative position is in this case, please
do.
There's one guy who's like, yes.
Now my expertise comes out.
Uh, I'm glad that we're doing this reread because the sequence is so short
that I, and I read it so long ago that I'd actually forgotten it.
Yeah, I had to, but, um, I remember Professor Queryle going to pains to try
to teach Harry how to lose in methods of rationality.
So for whatever reason, that stuck in my mind more, but, uh, I actually think
that the lessons better explained in the sequence, which is probably because
it's in the form of a real world consequence of losing money and
continual failing business ventures, then a lesson being taught by an evil
wizard who obviously hails here, your motives.
I actually didn't buy it at all in the story when he was like, lose Harry.
I was like, no.
Yeah.
Like, I don't know.
I think what, I think what Queryle's trying to do was teach him that you
need to know how, when to not escalate.
And like, so you keep, keep, how, keep the stakes in mind and then see how
high you want to keep going for that.
Because yeah, you could just burn yourself out.
You know, if his stupid ploy to what was, what did he just win?
Oh, we got Snape to apologize in front of everybody by threatening to walk out
on Dumbledore and damn the whole future of the magical Britain.
So he was saying, like, look, if your thing hadn't worked, you would have
just lost.
And so he'd have been expelled over what Snape being a dick snake or getting
detention is what it was or something.
Right.
So like, come on, you need to know when to pull your punches.
So I think it's a good lesson for any aspiring dark lord, but it does
hearken back to this too.
So I, well, the thing is though, even though this is like more, it's a better
example, I guess, in the fact that it actually applies to real life.
And you can see like, yeah, they should have stopped long before that.
Uh, I, the, the, I didn't remember this post, but I did remember sixth grade
people beaten up on first grade Harry Potter, you know, that, that stuck in
my mind for, I don't know, ever.
I haven't forgotten it anyway.
It's true.
And they are, there are, they are slightly different lessons, maybe as
part of the point too.
Yeah.
You know, one is like, no, when to not escalate and no, what not, when to not
go all out, because if you go all out and lose, you could end up totally fucked.
But this is more just like, don't keep writing on wishful thinking, you know,
have, have real realistic ambitions and keep them in check.
It seems like it's the same lesson actually.
Learn to realize when you should give up because you're losing.
