because I die immediately and send it back to regular, but never play in easy
mode because that just, it too easy.
Well, and it takes, it's all that does is just make the enemies like have less
health, they give you more damage.
And it, it seems like it artificially deliberately makes the experience easier.
And part of the experience is like supposed to be challenging.
You know, like parts of horizon zero done are supposed to be scary and
frustrating because there's no way you can beat this thing.
And many times you're like, holy shit, I need to get out of here.
But if you know, you can just cheese it from a distance by throwing rocks at it
or something, then it takes away some of the fun.
That's one of the reasons I'm looking forward to the World of Warcraft
classic is because it was actually really fucking hard.
I like hard games.
It's kind of a problem.
Okay.
Anyway, God of War was fun.
Yeah.
I had a great time with it.
You know, I never really liked the open world games because of all the
side quests and shit.
I feel like if I don't do them, I'm missing out on a lot.
But what I really care about is the main story.
And so I spent hours and hours on these stupid side quests, which distract me
from the main story and I lose focus and it just, ah, it's really frustrating.
So bad games make side quests feel like busy work and good games make side
quests feel like this other awesome thing you're lucky you found.
And I think Horizon Zero Dawn does that really well.
Like there's this whole expansion that I didn't realize was the expansion until
I played most of the game.
Then I googled like, what does this expansion actually cover?
And it's like, oh, that whole northern part of the continent.
And you get up there and there's this whole self contained kind of story, but
you're really interested in it and that sort of thing.
So I think it did a good job there.
Yeah, the rating in the game is good enough and like it ties into the world building.
And, you know, there's actually cool characters.
Yeah, the last two games like that I played were Dragon Age 3 and The Witcher 3,
both of which are like apparently the best games ever, right?
But both of them, I just didn't get all that into them.
I couldn't get into those either.
And I think it's just the camera.
I couldn't get in.
I tried Witcher 2 and 3 couldn't get past the controls.
Like I know that's like a weedy, that's a weak complaint, but it was clunky to play.
And I was like, eh, I just didn't get sucked in.
No, wait, I take that back.
I tried one and two.
I never tried three.
God of War is a good hybrid of like it's open world, but not in that sense
that you can scale any mountain you want.
It's like, hey, here's where you're supposed to go, but you don't have to.
You can go to wherever else you feel like you can get to or that you can, you know,
you get things to unlock parts of the game through the stuff.
So you can't get past that.
You can't get past it or whatever.
But when you go through down these little side rails, it's kind of it's fairly linear maps.
It's not like, like I said, we're in like Horizon Zero Dawn or Skyrim.
You can just run up any mountain and see what's up there.
This is much more of a contained experience, but not in a way that feels constricting.
Anyway, I like video games a lot.
I feel like I feel like it's an underappreciated medium for like telling
great stories and having a great time.
I think it's much more appreciated nowadays.
It is.
But I mean, even just 10 years ago, people would give me shit about
like being excited about the next video game.
Most people sucked.
They did suck.
And I'm like, it's like being excited for the next book, except this book takes me 600
hours to read, like it's going to be great.
So and you're controlling the protagonist.
Yeah.
And you're controlling the protagonist and you get to help
write the story in some of these games, right?
Like Horizon Zero Dawn and God of War, you don't.
The story is going to be what it is.
And you can just uncover as much of it as you can playing through.
And that's a great way to deliver the great stories that those games have.
But like, I don't know, Skyrim, you can kind of you don't get to like
side with the dragons at the end or whatever, but you can be a total
monster and an assassin old time if you want, or you can be a, you know,
a paragon of virtues.
So anyway, that's my video game rant.
Excellent.
We'll be doing something.
I forget.
Oh, we have one more sequence post.
Yeah.
Thanks for bearing with me.
No, that was cool.
We were going to do the video game thing chat at some point.
And it just got squeezed in between post two and three now.
Lucky you guys.
Hell yeah.
Okay.
Our last one is you are not hiring the top 1%.
I got another negative post.
I feel like, yeah, you know, but what's what was going on this week?
Uh, where he makes the point that when you get 200 resumes and hire the best
person, does that mean you're hiring the top 0.5% because a lot of places
do advertise that we only hire the top 1% and I know a lot of, um, uh, a lot
of tech companies.
Well, I was going to say, maybe, I don't know.
I was going to say that, uh, um, short story markets will publish, you know,
what percentage of, uh, stories that they accept that they receive, they
actually accept and publish.
And, you know, for some of them, it's like 1% or less.
Uh, but he goes on to say what happens to the other 199 candidates that you
didn't hire, they go look for another job.
So, uh, it may only be a few good people that are getting hired.
And the other 199 people are just the same terrible people rotating, going
from employer to employer, making everyone think they're hiring the top
1% when they're, they're just hiring average people who aren't the
shitty bottom 199.
Yeah.
So part of this is just failure to understand like how distributions
work and how samples work.
And so like, it's like math problems.
Like you just, you, when you say this, you don't actually, you can't
write on, on, on paper and like numbers, what you're mean without, without
contradicting yourself or without showing that you don't really understand
what you're saying.
But the other, I think the other point there is, um, slept my mind.
I guess, I don't know, this, this is something that you're right.
A lot of companies or publicists or things will tout like we only do the best.
And it's like, no, you, you don't, you do, do you do what everyone else is doing?
It sounds like it does sound good at first, right?
At first blush.
And, you know, my, my little question here at the bottom is what
does this have to do with rationality?
Yeah.
Is that a real question?
Yeah.
Oh, I thought you had like a, I thought that was like your prompt
document answer.
Well, part of it is just noticing that they don't understand probability
distributions, but maybe they don't not understand, but it's a marketing
employee, like trying to get investment money or make their company look good.
I think a lot of people really believe in it.
I had a teacher once who wanted us all to do the best in the class.
And I pointed out in front of the class, because I was an obstinate student
that like, that doesn't make any sense.
We can't all do the best.
Cause I had this joke that went back, I think it was Jerry Seinfeld, who was
like, you know, doctors, there are some doctors graduating at the bottom of the
class and whatever a passing grade is, there are doctors who are squeaking by.
And somebody's gotten a point with him on Monday is the joke.
Um, but, you know, so whether a passing grade is a doctor is a 90% or 70% they
are, there's somebody graduating at the bottom of the class, cause they can't
all be the top of the class.
You know, if they're all getting a pluses, somebody, somebody's doing better
than the other people or you're measuring metrics sucks.
Cause if they're all getting a hundred or they're all getting a pluses, 104% then
you're not measuring anything.
Right.
Um, well, apparently that's a lot of how school works.
Well, it is, but like, so the example I gave my teacher, cause she was annoyed
at that and so that was negative thinking.
I was like, we can't all be the tallest person in the class either.
Mm hmm.
What, you get a, how old were you at this point?
Uh, I was disannoying as a child too, but I was, uh, 19 probably when this happened.
Your teacher told you that shit, said that shit to 19 year olds.
She, this was a community college English teacher.
The only reason that, yeah, it was a nightmare.
Like I can see trying to tell that to fourth graders and thinking it'll fly,
but I cannot see anyone trying to tell teenagers.
I want every one of you to be the best in the class and not get like, she, she
wanted it to be like a, a positive thinking thing.
And I'm like, that's fine.
You should say you want us all to kick ass or us all to do great, but we can't
all be the best in the class.
That's just not how the best works.
And I don't remember what she said to my tallest example, but she might have said
that as negative thinking or something.
I don't know.
It sounds kind of naked.
If she especially was just trying to use it as a positive thinking experiment,
just let her have it.
She totally said.
Oh, well then.
No, she was a bully.
She, she, yeah, she, she was, she sucked.
But, and it wasn't just me who thought that she gave me so much shit that no
less than three other students came up to me at some point and was like, what
is her problem with you?
That's a good question.
And then somebody's trying to inspire you to be the best man.
Oh no, like all the time throughout, like the rest of the semester should call
me out and try to get me to drop out and stuff.
Yeah, it sucked.
Um, but no, the whole, I don't think it's negative.
There are three of us in the room.
One of us is the tallest, right?
That's not negative.
That's just true.
Wait, she said that the tallest example was negative.
I don't remember what she said about that.
But I, I, I maintain that those are simple.
