Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Eneash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and I'm Jess Dickey.
And we are doing our wonderful feedback episode, but before we get into that, we are going
to do the less wrong sequences, posts.
We're doing the posts first because, I don't know, we'll have all the time we need after
that to go as long as we want in questions, and we're doing three because they're kind
of shorter than usual, so.
Yeah, sorry about that, we probably should have, I don't know, I guess if you want to
read along, pause real quick and go read, what was the third one?
Go read, you are not hiring the top 1% because they were all pretty short, and we figured
we can do three this time.
Yeah, it'll go fast.
And honestly, you can pause and go read it in like two minutes, it's a pretty quick
post.
And we're doing a whole feedback episode because we've been not having time for feedback for
like the last two months, so let's get caught up on some of that.
Excellent.
On what I'm sure will be a surprisingly small amount of feedback, so.
But we will manage to talk for an hour and a half anyway because we're just blow hard
windbags.
We're dedicated like that.
And then maybe people will leave more feedback.
It's guaranteed that we'll just talk about their comment forever.
Lather, rinse, repeat.
Cool.
All right, let's get started.
I was about to say, damn, that sounds depressing.
The treadmill of podcast.
Except it's fun.
Yeah, OK.
We love it.
This is having fun pushing the rock and that's all that matters.
Right.
So the first post that we're going to discuss is politics is the mind killer.
One of the famous ones.
One of the famous ones and at least definitely my top five.
Oh, I did figure this out and I'll link to it in this episode.
Wait, no, it'll be linked to in last episode.
So listen to it.
Last episode.
If you want, I discussed last week that there was or last two weeks ago that there was definitely
an audio version of the Darwin, like what is truth really parable and I was like, are
you sure you didn't do it?
And you were like, I'm pretty sure I remember that.
Turns out you were right.
It was on the rationality from AI to zombies podcast.
Ha, I knew it.
Yeah.
So it wasn't you.
OK.
But there is a great audio version out there that'll be linked to in the episode.
Fantastic.
Let's go check it out from last week's and this week's.
Why not?
Yeah.
We should probably also include just a standing link in our posts to the podcast version of
the sequences.
Oh, yeah.
That sounds great.
Yeah.
And we'll start doing that too.
There are audio versions of the podcasts of the sequences.
They're actually two podcasts.
They cover it.
Yeah.
There's two guys with awesome accents who do it and they were doing it for fun and free.
And then I'm not, I bet the people who did it professionally or professionally did it
for free or some volunteers or something.
Maybe I'm not sure.
No, I believe they paid for it.
And it was originally a thing you can buy and then Mary went ahead and released it for
everyone for free.
Oh, the like overcast or no, wait, because I had those.
OK.
I had a couple of those sequences.
I thought these sounded different, but I wasn't sure.
I'll double check.
I didn't actually check.
OK.
Yeah.
One is AI rationality to zombies, which is curated differently.
Yes, they both are.
Yeah.
So they're both being rationally from AI to zombies.
The old ones.
Oh, right.
So they won't.
And they may won't have all of the ones in any case, there are two that you can listen
to.
So right.
They're both free.
Yeah.
All right.
So why don't you lead us in with politics as the mind killer?
OK.
Politics is the mind killer is basically what it says on the tin.
We did talk about this briefly earlier where someone pointed out that in the original politics
is the mind killer post.
Everyone remembers it nowadays.
At least I certainly did as well as being a sort of an injunction not to speak about
politics and the rationality circles.
Sager rationality for other more important things.
I'm going to go ahead and just volunteer that that's not how I took it on any reading.
Oh, no.
Just that that's not a good introductory subject for non-rationalists.
Yeah.
And that's the point, right?
That is the point.
Yeah.
I was kind of surprised when I reread this because what I remember from God, it's been
more than 10 years now.
But what I remember taking away from it at least after a month or two of time had passed
was just like, we don't talk about politics here.
And I mean, at the time, since we, he was still writing the sequences and we were going
through this, it was an actual injunction because we were trying to do the whole learning
of rationality thing, right?
Yeah.
And that would make sense.
And he even says in this post that, like, you know, this was when he was on an overcoming
bias and he wasn't going to say overcoming bias isn't political or isn't apolitical.
But I'm going to try not to be just because this isn't, we're not, we're not going to
get bogged down on reds versus greens or blues versus greens or whatever on every little
point we're making here.
We'll just talk about other, like, non-infinitory stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I was, that was an interesting perspective and obviously, you know, the community has
moved away from that over the years and done more and more with politics.
But for a while, there was, you know, whenever someone brought up politics, people just like,
politics is the mind killer, don't go there.
And you know, it's true.
So in the post, it says that in the ancestral environment, politics was a matter of life
and death.
It could get you kicked out of the tribe, which would lead to you dying of, you know,
starvation and exposure and whatever.
And also, it could just give people license to kill you if you were on the wrong side
of a debate.
And if you're on the right side, you could kill your hated enemies.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because he's talking about evolutionary psychology, he says politics were life and death in the
ancestral environment.
In a way, I would argue that it still is.
While in most parts of the world nowadays, you probably won't literally be killed for
your political opinions.
And the wrong ones can still definitely cost you your career and make you a social outcast.
Yeah.
I think that's, I think it depends on how severe your opinion is, or your positions on some
of these and like how severe your workplace, like for the most part, part of the reason
is like, why that's the case.
Why people are so insane about it is because of the ancestral architecture reasons, right?
And I think, I don't know.
I want to know.
Okay.
So I was going to say, I think it's not that bad because in workplaces all across the country,
there's Trumpers working side by side with, I don't know, SJWs, right?
They just don't talk about it at work because they're there to get a job done.
Most work, it depends on the workplace, but yeah.
Yeah.
Like a lot of places it just doesn't come up or it doesn't matter, you know, or you're
encouraged, you know, not encouraged, but you're perfectly within your rights to have
a fun, heated debate at lunch.
But you know, if you're talking about it on the clock, you're going to get told to shut
the fuck up and that doesn't matter what you're talking about.
Yeah.
But then, you know, I think about back to the fifties when people were being barred from
doing anything in their industry because someone said that they were a communist.
Yeah.
And today's in the fifties and there are people still, you know, losing their jobs and stuff
over their political positions.
And some of those are like white supremacists, you know, who are outed for, I don't know,
doing crazy white supremacist shit and then they get fired.
So they could say I was fired for my political opinion and I don't want to be disuncharitable
and say that they weren't, but they were, they were fired for having really, really bad
ones.
So I don't know.
Like there's, there's a way to spin it that isn't, it's not even a spin, but like there's
a difference between if everyone at my office was pro gun control and or like say pro gun
taking them all away, whatever you call it, whatever that version of control.
And I was for like stringent gun control, but still private ownership.
If I got fired over that, that'd be insane.
They'd be more insane than me being fired for on my personal time publishing blog posts
about how Jews are destroying the environment and like sending money to the Magabomber or
something.
Right.
So does that make sense?
Am I, am I on a tangent or am I just, am I on a tangent that's so obvious that's not
even worth talking about?
No, it makes sense.
I don't know.
It's weird.
It's weird the way politics can still shape life because like just was saying the wrong
politics in the wrong office will hurt you.
You're having the wrong opinion like among your friends can lose you a lot of friends.
Like there's still consequences.
It's just, I like thought that saying that in the ancestral environment kind of like
downplay the fact that this is still a thing that we do need to worry about.
It's not like as a society, we've all gotten over politics or like they don't, you know,
they don't matter anymore.
They still do.
But I think one of the reasons, he's pointing out one of the reasons that we are this crazy
