about politics is because back in the day, it used to be a thing where you could literally
die or have your reproductive success greatly hindered.
And the madness that we still have surrounding politics is from, from, from that environment.
I think most people nowadays, if they were to check out of politics entirely and not have
a political opinion, it wouldn't really impact their life, their day to day life for the
most part.
Yeah.
That might be a part of it too.
You know, depending on, unless you're like at a rally with a mob, like saying, I don't
have an opinion on this, it's probably not going to get you stoned, right?
Yeah.
And even saying, I do have an opinion on this and it's different for most peoples isn't
going to be that big a deal.
Yeah.
But I just, I just see what you're saying that there, the people are still crazy about
it.
And I guess I just didn't read it to be saying that we're not still crazy.
I think you were saying, we, this is why we're crazy.
Not, it's not politics was the mind killers that it still is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I still think the argument for tabooing politics in certain discussions is solid because despite
how much our political opinions shape our views of the world and then like how we end
up self selecting the news we see and the groups we associate with our own personal
political biases can be really difficult to notice.
So I really appreciate what the sequence is trying to do, even though we kind of moved
away from it.
Yeah.
Oh, somewhat.
Yeah.
No, I think that that I, I see the, the goal there, but I do think that it's important
to be able to have discussions about whatever, including politics stuff, but you need to
make sure that everyone on board with the conversation is able to have it sanely, right?
So I mean, there are things that, you know, depending on the subject, probably any one
of us wouldn't be able to like have a good conversation about whatever this is, right?
So it's like, all right, I'm going to recognize that I am not equipped to have a conversation
about that.
I think the fact that we do get so, uh, testy and hesitant to talk about things is sort
of a proof that it is still a mind killer.
Yeah.
And it's at least now we're aware of it.
There's also one of my favorite passages and all the sequences in this is why it makes
my top five favorites.
It's that politics is an extension of war by other means.
Arguments are soldiers.
Once you know which side you're on, you must support all arguments of that side and attack
all arguments that appear to favor the enemy side.
Otherwise it's like stabbing your soldiers in the back.
Yeah.
I see that shit a lot.
Totally.
I've done that shit.
Yeah.
Me too.
And it's hard not to.
And so like, that's why I happened to get off Facebook right about the, when, right
around before Trump won the primary for the, uh, presidency.
Just in time.
Just in time.
Yeah.
But even like in the months leading up to that, I'd see people posting something about
how I can't think of what it is.
And it would be something that was like, like not true and egregious and, you know, like,
hey, this, you know, whatever it is, I can't remember what it is.
The point is people are publishing lies about Donald Trump.
And I'm like, you guys, there are so many bad truths about Donald Trump.
Let's share those instead.
Because if we, if we're out there lying to each other, lying, lying to, you know, pat
ourselves in the back, people are going to be able to point to the lies and say, look,
they're lying over there.
We don't have to worry about the truth things that they're saying because they lied on this
one occasion.
Yeah.
And so it turns out how polar, it turns out that it was surprising how polarizing that
is to say, hold on guys, that part's not true.
Right.
Um, how dare you?
You're a Trump, you're a supporter.
No, no, that's not what I'm saying.
I told you about the feng shui thing, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
Wait, tell me.
Oh, there was a whole thing where, uh, I was just friends with, you know, a bunch of,
I mean, I still am friends with a bunch of left-leaning people, but this was like someone
very SJWish and she posted on Facebook about how she could not believe that her coworker
got a white person to do feng shui for them.
And I was like, because it's less bullshit when they come from the area.
And I got like ripped apart by her and one of her friends as in like, how dare you be
racist and shit.
I'm like, look, it's still bullshit.
I don't care about the race thing.
And it was, it was a big, big thing about, uh, I was, I was attacking the wrong person,
I guess I was one of those stab in the back people now.
I do like flipping it on.
I'm like, you guys are being racist ones, assuming that Chinese people have this magic
that they can do.
Right.
That sounds like super trophy to me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway, yeah.
So we got to fight the Chinese magic with the America magic and what's American magic?
The ability to turn human pain into money or like that.
A lot of people can do that.
So we're better at killing dragons because wasn't there in that Matt Damon movie a few
years ago?
Or wait, no.
Oh.
Not Matt Damon.
Who was it?
It was Matt Damon.
Yes.
Yeah.
I don't think he was better at killing dragons than the stars.
Wait.
Then what was he, what was he in the movie for?
Cause he was just around.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was like one of the, the co-stars, the first of all Chinese people love Matt Damon.
Right.
Oh, I knew all about why he was in it.
Right.
I was joking about that's what we have to bring to the table is dragon killing skills.
I mean, he, he apparently was contributing in some way to the war effort, right?
He was in the movie.
I didn't see the movie.
Me neither.
What was the great wall?
That's the one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There was.
I heard it's good though.
I heard it was.
It looked fun.
People that did watch it say it was actually surprisingly good.
So I should probably watch it.
You're shooting into a racist though.
What if you steal it?
Yeah.
There you go.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, I'm glad we solved that problem.
Yes.
But so I think what I like about this is that we, and we chose some inflammatory examples,
but the, the idea that when having a discussion, I think everybody can think of an example
from their lives where they're talking about, um, it, well, it's, you know, this is kind
of the absurdity of like, if I know your position on legalization of drugs, I can guess what
art, maybe that's probably more centrist now, but, uh, if I know your position on abortion,
I can guess your position on immigration and gun control and I don't know your support
of the, your, your, uh, what do you call it, comfort with, uh, Russia or something, right?
Which has gone way up in three public and party in the last five years.
So fucking weird, man, from around 10% to about 35% now, the fact that those all are
on your side of the, of the war and why would they be correlated?
Those beliefs have nothing to do with each other.
So that's, that's the sort of thing that you, you might be called out for saying,
oh no, I'm, I'm a liberal, but I think that I should be able to own guns and somebody
might call you, call you out for that, or no, look, I'm a conservative, but you know,
abortion issue, that's, that's obviously settled.
People should be allowed to have them.
They'll be called out for that too.
Um, and that's not even like a policy debate, but that's just a, a, I guess in the metaphor,
guess different battalions, um, but they're all on the same side of the, on the same army.
Anyway, it's madness.
So he said that the reason we want to taboo, or he wants to taboo talking about
politics is that though politics is an important domain to which we should
individually apply our rationality, see, actually should apply rationality.
So weird, but it's a terrible domain in which to learn rationality.
And he used the example that in AI, in artificial intelligence, and particularly
in the domain of non-monotonic reasoning, which I don't even know if I've
pronounced that right because I don't know what that is.
You pronounced it right.
Okay, great.
There's a standard problem.
Quote, all Quakers are pacifists.
All Republicans are not pacifists.
Nixon is a Quaker and a Republican is Nixon, a pacifist that is Nixon, a pacifist.
And he goes on to say, what on earth was the point of choosing that as an example?
Cause you've just alienated whatever portion of your audience is, you know, Republican.
Or at least made them feel like, what the hell?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So you're, you're trying to talk about an actual problem in programming and you
have just put a certain amount of people on edge and in defensive fight mode.
Especially when in this, when the circumstance, you know, all A, R, B, all
C are not A, D is B and A, or D is B and C is D, A.
Like that, I guess what I'm getting at, it could have been more abstract.
And instead you make it politically aggressive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think it is actually as a word problem, more comprehensible to someone who's
like a newbie programmer, but like, yeah, you could have picked something
that was non-political.
Yeah.
And then that's what he said, that it feels really good to get that jab in, but don't do it.
