Yeah.
I guess I had a difference and then I spoke to you on myself and forgot the
people who, whatever these else TCM hedge fund people, they didn't, they
didn't lose because they weren't trying hard enough and they didn't, they
refused to put all their cards on the table and they took the kid gloves off
and really just said, we're going to do this.
They lost because the system changed and there was no winning.
So it wasn't like, I feel like Harry in that situation, if there was no chance
of winning, he wouldn't have gone that way.
He had to chill or something else.
Right.
Well, I, so I'm, it was like, no, that this is, this is where I can keep raising
the stakes, but there, he actually had stakes to raise, whereas these people
were just writing on wishes.
Well, knowing Harry, he probably could have done something to win against those
bullies, right?
But then that would have resulted in something even worse, like blowing up
half of Hogwarts.
Sure.
Yeah.
He had his plans on how to win too.
There was, there was that part where he, you know, he turned on his real
enemy, the defense professor.
But the thing is, these guys had a plan as well, right?
They were, they were making profits the next quarter.
They just kept borrowing and leveraging more and it ended up with blowing up
half of Hogwarts in financial terms for them.
I think the difference though is that they weren't actually, they didn't,
they didn't have a plan or adapt or pivot when things got weird.
They just kept doubling down.
You know, it's like, it'd be like the person who goes to Vegas and they bring
$500, they lose it all immediately.
So they go withdraw more money.
They start maxing out credit cards.
They start whatever black marketing organs and their watch and their wedding ring.
Like at that point, and they're still just playing blackjack, right?
They're, they're, they're not, they're not trying harder.
They're just keeping trying.
So there's a difference.
I, I'm belaboring probably way too much, but I guess I wanted to, they felt
different to me and I wanted to articulate that these people are just playing
blackjack over and over and refuse to acknowledge that blackjack is a losing
game.
Um, actually, blackjack is a great game.
If you want to sit and play, your odds are pretty good for as far as poker,
but, um,
they're only slightly less than one and two.
Yeah.
Which is not bad.
Well, I like games where you're just playing against one person.
Okay.
Uh, like, oh, don't get wrong.
I actually like holding more because it's a longer game and it's more fun.
But the, so you actually like these card games.
I mean, a little bit.
It's actually like the one thing if I could, I've found, I've watched all
the videos I can find online, but it's like the sport that's on in a restaurant
or something.
It's the one I'll sit and like not pay attention to conversation watching
like high stakes poker.
Huh.
I think that's a lot of fun.
I've never seen high stakes poker on a TV in a restaurant.
It's cause it's not that common, but it's out there once in a while.
Yeah.
We must go to different restaurants.
Yeah.
You gotta go to enough, like, I don't know, shitty sports bars or something
on the off seasons.
Yeah.
I try to avoid those.
There you go.
Um, I'm going to get back to your point, Steven.
But, uh, and maybe this is just me, but I, while I agree with what the sequence
is saying, I don't like the negative tone of just lose hope already.
Right.
Uh, even though the focus is on knowing when to stop trying, I think the point
might be at the expense of the value of failure.
Well, they had like, there was the, um, hedge fund and then there's this
fictional character Casey in the sequence who keeps failing.
And the writing actually kind of made fun of Casey and saying like, he hasn't
failed, you see, he just had a learning experience.
And yeah, so he had failed at trying the same thing eight times and he's about
to try again the ninth time.
So he's clearly not actually learning from the failure, which is like what
you were saying, Steven.
I don't think that was a fictional character.
Was it?
Oh, was it?
That was a real guy.
That was a real person.
I think what he was saying when he is like, Oh, you see, he, he just had a
learning lesson, he had a learning moment, which I think he put that in like
the kind of sarcastic italics because that's probably what he's saying to
people and why he's trying for the ninth time, doing the same thing.
No, no, no, I'm just, I, those were the, you know, that, that wasn't failure.
That was experience.
And it's like, yeah, but you're not, you're doing the same thing.
Yeah.
We have a lot of societal kind of, you know, fall down, fall off the horse nine
times, get up 10 and, uh, I'll say like, if you just believe really hard,
but, uh, no, failure, I think can actually be really important, although
it's mostly like important because it tells you that you need to alter your
strategy or try to do something else instead.
So yeah, I don't actually disagree with the sequence.
I'm just not a fan of the tone.
Yeah, it is pretty negative sounding.
Who hurt you?
I think I'd have liked it more if it focused more on the how to be smarter
and how to calculate your odds of success.
Part of the, they just kind of like mentioned that this is what you should
do and then moved away from it.
It just like reinforces to me that failure is shameful and should be avoided at
all costs.
And meanwhile, I think most people don't fail enough because they're so
risk averse and afraid of looking bad that they never try anything.
I definitely see how that's an interpretation.
That's not how I took it, but I totally see how he, he opened himself up to
that reading.
I think what he would say is like, if you fall off a horse five times, like
check the stirrups or like adjust your grip the sixth time, don't just get back
on it, fall right back off.
Like there's, so it's about actually adapting and actually learning from your
mistakes, but he doesn't stop time on that in this post.
Stop just having hope that it'll be different this time and actually do
something.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know, like you said, as far as like things you can actually do,
you know, he's, there's a, one of our notes here was every profession has a,
has a different way to be smart, uh, different skills to learn and rules to
follow, which, uh, I put known here, that's kind of the thing we talked about,
uh, in the last episode with the person who said civilization is basically
systematized winning already.
They, a lot of, a lot of our organizations in life have these rules and systems
that are guide you into winning as long as you follow them.
Yeah.
And that's, at least there's basically saying the same thing here.
Each profession has ways to, to succeed at it.
Yeah.
And the next point too is one that I made when someone asked like, well, how
do I apply rationality in my real life, which is like, I try not to suck.
Yeah.
But how not to be stupid has a great deal in common across professions.
And there was a, one of my philosophy professors to find wisdom as like the
skill of not sucking at life.
And I liked that.
And it could be, you know, the skill of excelling at life, but I like, I like
that they're not sucking because it's more, it's more generic.
There are, there are pitfalls that you can fall into basically wherever you are.
And identifying and blocking against those is good, but there are different,
too many directions to reach in to have like generic advice on how to win.
I think, right?
I think a lot of advice on how to win is really advice on how not to lose.
Yeah.
He says, yeah, in continuation of that quote, if you'd set out to teach someone
how to not turn little mistakes into big mistakes, it's nearly always the same art,
whether it's a hedge funds or romance.
And one of the keys is this, be ready to admit you lost.
Yeah.
Maybe, maybe he didn't think of the line, learn how to lose until later.
Cause that'd been a better name for this post rather than just lose hope.
Yeah.
It's still pretty negative though.
It is, I think, I think I had a hard time with that too.
Even when I was reading methods of rationality, that was kind of why I had
the knee jerk reaction of like, no, don't, you know, learn how to lose, learn
how to win better, but that's less than Harry takes.
And he's ready to destroy the universe to do it.
Right.
So, so the whole story is kind of that lesson.
Yeah.
It's a lot, it's a lot of stuff.
All right.
As long as we're in tangent land, how are you liking Horizon Zero Dawn?
It's really good.
Yeah, vindication, validation.
I'm playing it very slowly because my temptation is to just like burn through
story mode really quickly.
And I'm trying to draw the experience.
So I'm doing all the lakeside quests and kind of just wandering around and trying
to explore the world.
That's what I did.
I went through and played, I took off all of last week for Thanksgiving and I
played God of War all the way through the new one.
Nice.
And when I started the game, I always look at the settings to see like what I can
change about it.
So I turned off a bunch of stuff that I think made it way more immersive and fun.
So there's like a compass like a lot of games have like that tell you where to go
at the top.
Yeah.
I made that only show up if I touched the middle part of the controller.
Cool.
So it's not like I'm not just staring at the compass and keeping myself aligned
the whole time.
I'm looking at the world.
Yeah.
I turned off enemy health bars unless I do the same thing, touch the thing.
And a couple of other things that just like, and I also put it in hard mode,
which I try, I always try a game in hard mode first and then get frustrated
