So it's like, it's a really like awkward question
because you have to be like, okay,
if you don't allow trans people to participate
in certain sports, like,
isn't that unfair to somebody who, you know,
took puberty blockers at age 10?
And then like, I don't think you take them at 10.
I don't know what age you start.
And then like, you've never actually had the chance
to have male hormones.
And gotten the bigger skeleton.
You could probably at some point measure that.
You can measure it.
But, but the question is, where do you draw the line?
Yeah.
Then see a super arbitrary about where you're drawing lines.
And I think I remember like in,
what have been like junior high or high school
when I was like, I was doing school sports.
I don't think it's all that arbitrary
if you have ways to measure.
Well, like measure what specifically?
I don't know the, what they can do,
skeletal structure, musculature, all those things.
Make a weight class.
Yeah.
Possibly make a weight class.
A more stringent weight class thing.
A man in the same weight class as a woman
is still not going to have a fair fight when they're boxing.
I think that's, so then you have to measure other things, right?
Right.
And we're kind of like nerfing.
That's what I'm saying.
The measurements would have to be more fine grain
than just what the weight is.
Yeah.
And I guess I don't know.
You could probably do something along those lines.
Yeah, probably.
You know, there's a lot of science people hitting each other
in the face over and over and seeing, you know, all that stuff.
I mean, dude, if we can fucking land that tiny,
that little thing on Mars and have it, you know,
sending us pictures a few minute hours later,
we can, we can totally get this.
Yeah, with enough time and effort, we can have,
we can have, we can have man on woman violence in MMA.
That sounds great.
So.
And finally, everything will be good.
Well, and this is, this is probably not the right way
to think about it, but this was the answer I was given
in like junior high and high school when I was getting into
school sports was like in track, there was,
there was no gender segregation, but in football there was.
And I didn't, maybe there wasn't in junior high,
but in high school, I think there was.
Yeah, that's how my school was set up.
Yeah, but there was a girls league and a boys league
in high school.
And I was like, why is there not just like one league
and let the best players join the league?
And the answer that I was given, that was like, you know,
it sucks, but like that's cause all the guys
would get it, none of the girls would.
Yeah.
And so the, you know, having this separate, having them.
Every now and then there might be like one really
exceptional girl that could make it in, but.
At which point they should let her join the boys team.
They absolutely should.
Yeah.
Maybe.
But everyone else who wants to play wouldn't,
all the other girls that want to play wouldn't be able to.
But yes, if one girl can make it in totally,
use the best person for the, for the job.
Yeah.
I got a, that a female kicker they had in,
God, I don't even remember where it was.
Sports.
Yeah.
And that's fine.
Yeah.
Somewhere, somewhere in sports.
Somewhere in sports.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I think the, but I brought that up for the example
that it would be, I don't know,
you still want to like let everyone who wants to play, play.
And then of course there's also the thing that like,
I think there are separate leagues for like women's chess,
which does strike me as weird.
That really?
I think the reason that I saw for that was that,
since it was historically and probably still is kind of a boys club,
that like having a girl's league, it was like,
look, you're not going to feel like ostracized by joining, playing here.
I'm not sure if it's weird.
I don't know what they do at like world championships,
if men play women, but if they don't, that'd be stupid as shit.
I think they do because there was that post about training a genius on Slate Star Codex,
they were talking about how the guy had trained his three daughters
to all the world-class chess players.
Yeah.
I sent that to my sister when she was pregnant.
It was like, you can have your daughter do whatever you want if you start early enough, right?
But of course chess is the kind of thing that you can optimize, you know,
but I, you know, I don't see why you couldn't try something harder.
Is she going to channel her kid into becoming a genius in some certain area?
I'm not sure. She's only six months old.
There's still time to pick a profession.
I gotta start early.
Yeah.
As long as she's picked something before 18 months.
Okay, we'll give this a more thought.
I mean, it works with John Stuart Mill.
He was kind of like a polymath at everything.
He had a mental breakdown and, you know, not a happy life, but,
Oh, I didn't know that.
But he did, he did crush it and he's super famous.
So, you know,
That's what really matters.
Yeah.
Okay.
So that was a long digression on that thoughtful thing that James wrote in.
So thanks for doing that.
Yeah.
Did you have anything, Jess?
No.
Yeah. Reddit is where a lot of the comments come from.
People can comment on the website and on Patreon directly too.
Yeah.
Or emailing us at the BayesianConspiracyPodcast.gmail.com.
Yeah.
Or wait, BayesianConspiracyPodcast.gmail.com.
Know the on the email.
Right.
I have one from Not Without Incident.
Yeah.
In our, I think two episodes ago,
we talked about the map is not the territory.
And you asked where that came from and I said,
Eliezer first got it from the world of NLA by Van Vogt,
I think is the name of the sci-fi author,
which is where he ran into it.
Not with that incident says,
the map is not the territory is an important idea in math and philosophy,
going back almost a century.
And linked us to a wiki which showed that Wikipedia page
showed that Polish American scientist and where?
Polish American scientist and philosopher Alfred Korsbinski.
I was going to trust you to pronounce this correctly on the first try.
I don't know, man.
I am so American.
It's ridiculous.
We'd have to ask my parents how to pronounce it.
They could like snap it off.
Was first, has the first citation of it in 1931.
And he says, or Not Without Incident says,
I think one of the biggest issues with the sequences in general
is that as part of his disdain for traditional academia,
Yadkowski isn't really into citation.
Because of this, a lot of people in the rationalist community
credit him with ideas from other fields,
sometimes under a different name.
And that's, that's fair.
I did not know that this king has been around since at least 1931.
That's good to know.
I actually have to wonder whether, I mean, like,
I imagine Eleazar knew that he probably researched it,
but maybe he didn't.
Maybe he did find it from the sci-fi book who was referencing.
You know, maybe there's just a chain of references.
Yeah.
I would bet the other way that he found it from the sci-fi book
and didn't even, wasn't even aware that there was some philosopher
in the 30s who coined the phrase.
But, but yeah, the point is true that Yadkowski, it's sort of apparent.
Well, it's not like he has this hobby horse
that he's hating on academia,
but he, especially philosophy, he sheds on a bit.
Yeah.
Because in his defense philosophy is kind of fucked up.
Well, it's the antithesis of what I think he wants rationality to be.
And that's why it's not rationalism,
because there's already a school of thought called that in philosophy.
It's rash, it's rationalist-ness rationality.
Yeah, rationality, but that's also kind of the reason
that he can get the good name of rationalism,
because there's already a name of that,
that's really not rationality.
We'll call it Bayesian rationality.
Yeah.
But the, I think the disdain for philosophy in particular,
and I am a big fan of philosophy, I've enjoyed it for ages.
But the field itself doesn't have the kind of cut and dry way
