contacts another. But I got a cold a few weeks ago, and I never touched anyone except my family
members. And none of them were sick. You don't need to actually touch someone. Sometimes it can
spread through mucus droplets in the air. And one time I was camping in the woods for a month,
and then I got a cold, even though I hadn't been around anybody.
If it was spring, you might have gotten allergies. Allergies can feel a lot like a cold,
but they aren't spread by germs. It was fall? Then maybe it was an unusual allergy,
or some other condition. Hey, wait. If germs are spread from person to person on touch, then
why isn't the government just mandate one week when nobody's allowed to touch anybody else?
Then all the germs will die and we'll never have to worry about germs again.
That's a good question. A lot of germs have what's called reservoirs in the environment
where they live when they're not infecting humans. Even if the government tried your plan,
probably most sicknesses would come back from their reservoirs.
I've never seen a germ reservoir. Where are they?
They're not literal reservoirs like a water reservoir. That's just what we call it when
germs live in bats or raccoons or something. That was kind of weird. I haven't been cruel
in a long time. That was amazing. That was wonderful to listen to though.
I just want to make your quarrel voice into a text to speech,
and have professor quarrel read me fan fiction or something.
That would be awesome.
Anyway, notice a few things about this conversation.
First, it's really good that it happened.
Yeah, the student was confused at many points and knows that they were confused,
and it raised that confusion immediately, which is a great habit to be in.
And the teacher took the student seriously and answered him and addressed all his concerns.
Yeah, I liked that actually Scott said, surprisingly, teachers actually do a pretty
good job of this in real life, which maybe just means he had better teachers than me,
but I did have, I had some very good teachers.
I had some that would take it the exact opposite way, and some that would indulge me to the point
where they'd say, I want to keep talking about this. Let's come back after class or after school
if you want and we can keep going. The bad teachers would shut you down and say you
couldn't talk for the rest of the week because they thought you were trying to make them look
stupid. Oh, what a bunch of assholes. Well, that's the, well, we're getting a bit ahead,
but that's kind of the point of the article. Yeah, I think this is the main reason why a lot of
people advocate for smaller class sizes, because you can't have too many students
if you're going around and like actually making sure each one really understands what you're
saying and letting them grill you until it clarifies the thing in their head, right?
Like if you had to do this with 30 students one after the other, I mean, there'd definitely be,
there'd probably be a lot of overlap where one person asking would help
clarify it for a bunch of people, but it just, it could be a bit much if you have like 100 students.
It might take forever. So I think that's, you know, in an ideal world, you would have like
one mentor and one student, right? And they would take responsibility for that student and
just keep going with them and help them get everything until they actually understood it.
You know, I think it was a book I recommended a couple episodes ago to David and Goliath,
which was by Malcolm Gladwell, where they did, they looked at the question of whether
smaller class sizes are better than larger class sizes. And
like the answer is kind of, it depends, but not always. Okay. I'm gonna recommend that book again.
Nice. So I'm gonna write it down in the notes. Yeah, I mean, so like the, the exchange here
goes about as pleasantly as possible for the student who's asking questions. And like I
alluded to, I had teachers in elementary school that were the exact opposite of this, and they
took it as like a hostile, like you're trying to look dumb, then shut the fuck up. I have the power
here. And this is actually great. Right. But this is great. So they, they're able to say, hold on,
I've got like this, if what you're saying is true, then I've got like this really obvious way that
I can, we can end all illness forever. And like, that's actually a good question. And so, and the
teacher says, that's a good question. So it's great. I love that. There's the, I'm jumping ahead
a little bit. I was going to bring an example in from another thing. So we'll just keep running with
the post. Go ahead. Okay. So the second thing that he says about this is that to a hostile observer,
it would sound like the student was challenging the teacher, the Snape interpretation, basically.
Every time the teacher tried to explain the germ theory, the student pounced on a supposed inconsistency
with pounced in quotes. When the teacher tried to explain the consistency that student challenged
her explanations. And yeah, and I was going to say that in the first part, I forgot to mention this
where you plugged guessing the teacher's password that the kids doing the opposite of that. Yeah.
But they're not writing down a note that says, you know, okay, diseases caused by germs, right.
Yeah, they're trying to actually understand. Yeah, exactly. And I love the line. And the thesis of
this post is you must never ever say that saying that is so bad. Smackdown once say, I think I
know more about germ theory than you do. Make him feel like you challenged your authority and that's
bad. And the best case scenario is I'll never ask questions to resolve this confusion again.
The worst case scenario is he stops feeling the confusion entirely, or stops thinking of forcing
things to fit together and make sense as a desirable goal to have. Yeah, that's how you got
teachers passwords. Exactly. The VAT to never ever say is the VAT that student is being a brat
and challenging the teacher, right? Yeah, I think that's one of the reasons I really love methods
of rationality and Harry and that because he is always trying to find the answers. And I think
that's one of the reason people some people hate methods of rationality because they're like,
Harry's just being a brat who thinks he knows everything. And yes, sometimes he is, but
it's that's not like his intention. He isn't there to undermine people. He's just trying to find the
truth. I think a lot of I read somewhere that a lot of parents, in particular, disliked the
Harry character. And that was my observation. Okay, that was yeah, I was trying to remember if
that was this podcast actually, before I was on it. Yeah, it's very much the idea of children
need to be subordinate to adults, kind of taking precedence over, like caring about this child,
knowing things, being curious. If you see that, that exchange that we acted out, which was very fun.
Hmm. Now, now you're learning a bunch of things you probably might or you might not have learned
in the lecture if the student had or had not interrupted. Yeah, I think that in cases like
that this is called Socratic Grilling, because this is supposedly how Socrates taught his students
would have to kind of figure out their own shit. He would kind of guide them along occasionally,
but like, he wouldn't give them answers, he would be like, I don't know, what do you think?
A lot of the times in the Socratic Dialogues, he would have a point, but he would never actually
say his point. He would just keep asking questions that, as his interlocutor answered them, would
bring them closer and closer to the point that he was making. And then they find out the truth
in a way that is going to, first of all, make them feel good about the fact that they figured it
out. Secondly, they're going to remember it, it's going to be a lot more important. And third,
now they have a more solid model because they've explored the edges of it and they didn't just
get a single word answer. I mean, sometimes lots of times they ended with like Socrates,
you're a dick and walking off. Yeah, let's not forget that the the character of Socrates was
eventually killed because he was so annoying. It's one and the other thing that it didn't always
lead to like a nice resolution of like, great, now we know it's more like great, I knew that you
didn't actually know. So I've now proven that you don't know either or that you now you believe
you don't know either because I've grilled you down enough to where you realized that you were
holding onto nothing. It's interesting. What was I going to say about? Well, I think that's why this
is called Socratic grilling rather than Socratic questioning, because with Socratic grilling,
it's it's a bit more directed than questioning, but it's also like the kid is trying to find out
the answer, as opposed to just leading someone to the conclusion that they don't know stuff, right?
Yeah, the article says you need to think of it as Socratic grilling, like Socratic questioning,
but a bit harsher and more confrontational in order to get to the point more quickly.
And he adds tolerating this is harder than it sounds. Most people can stay helpful for one or
two iterations. But most people are bad at explaining things. So one or two iterations
isn't always enough. I've had times where I need five or 10 question answer rounds of a teacher
in order to understand what they're telling me. This process sounds a lot like the thing you just
said is obviously wrong. No, that doesn't make any sense. Keep saying it over and over. No,
that's irrelevant. You're bothering me. Keep saying an obviously wrong thing. Oh, that word
means something totally different. What I thought it meant. Now your statement makes total sense.
That sounds like half our discussions on the discord. Yeah, like this is often
this is often why people have conflicts. I think it's the
people are having they think they're having a fight about one thing. And it turns out that
like they both have the both actually fighting about a different thing. Yeah. Or the thing that
they like care about or trying to optimize isn't the thing the other person thinks that is. It's
so common. So I wanted to bring up a quick thing to backtrack just a little bit. You said that you
quoted him saying that the thesis of the post is you should never ever say that to a student
because the best cases he'll never ask questions again. And the worst case is that
he stops trying to force things to fit together and stops thinking of
things making sense as a desirable goal. I was like, I think there's other I mean,
I guess there's a whole spectrum between best case and worst case. But I ran into this quite a
few times like in me personally that not not it isn't always just giving up like sometimes
there's flat out rebellion. There's like, Oh, yeah, well, maybe you don't know shit, sir. You're
trying to shut me down. And I think it's because you don't know anything. And I usually wouldn't
say that like in class or anything. But I think this way, I may be in my head. But I think this
is the sort of thing which will often motivate people to try to find answers on their own.
But even more so, I think it will often motivate people to simply distrust authority,
because they're like, this person couldn't answer my questions. And when I ask some,
they try to shut me down. So I don't think they know what they're talking about. And therefore,
I don't believe the earth is actually round. And, you know, they start not believing anything
said by authority and wanting to verify everything themselves, and can embrace things like, you
know, sometimes it leads to good outcomes, but sometimes it can lead to things like vaccine
denial or flat earth orism. I've definitely run across teachers who I was pretty convinced
didn't actually understand the subject that they were teaching, like they have been taught it in
this way. And then they were just repeating it. And it's like, I guess it's handed all the way
down from whoever actually is the expert on the thing and helped write the textbook. But I think
in that case, if you ask a question, the teacher doesn't know, it's too embarrassing for like,
social status reasons to say, Oh, actually, I don't know.
That is a really hard thing to do. Like, I've had that situation come up a few times with like,
my little brothers, when I was trying to teach them stuff, and they asked me questions, and I was
like, Oh, shit, I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong, right? And it's really easy to say that to your
little brother, you're like, I don't know, let's find out together. But much harder. Yeah, exactly.
Or if you're trying to teach a kid a group of kids in a school and half of them,
don't respect you anyway, I would be, I could see that being a much tougher thing to be like,
you got me. I'm not sure. Let's get back to this next week.
I had a couple of awesome teachers who and it would be seldom where I would distract the
conversation enough to where either A, they couldn't answer it or B, they'd be allowed to go on that
long because they do have to get through their lesson plan. But they would come back the next day.
And I remember at least two or three different teachers in high school, I had such a good high
school overall teaching experience. I had one teacher come back with a lot of times they'd come
back with answers like the next day, because they went home when they were curious too,
because they actually liked the subjects they were teaching. I had one come back to some printed
paperwork and they're like, Hey, I found that thing we were talking about the other day.
Oh, cool.
I thought that was like the coolest thing ever. And I'm like, Fuck yeah. Now we both get to know.
I thought like, Oh, you weren't done. Go ahead.
No, please.
I was just going to say I've had similar experiences. And those are my favorite teachers,
like this person cares about knowledge and learning. Imagine.
And they want to know more about their subject too.
They realized that they had an exposed ignorance and they're like, Oh, you know what,
I should know that. And I'm curious because I actually like this subject.
Yeah, this sort of thing, this whole, you know, don't question me when you think you know everything
is what directly one of the things that led directly to my deconversion from religion.
Because I was like, Well, I don't think you know, if you can't answer me,
I'm not just going to take your word for it. And I'm going to go look some more for myself.
And so, you know, the whole rebellion in that case was a very good thing.
It isn't always necessarily, but, you know, I think it can have good effects as well.
But I in general, I completely agree that the you must never ever say this is a something that
should be drilled into all teachers and maybe they should be taught how to accept that sometimes
they won't know things and they should not shut people down if they're asking.
Yeah. I mean, there are many ways that the school system should be reformed.
So this actually connected to something kind of upsetting that happened to me recently.
Oh, real quick before we go that, can I say one final thing on the post?
Yeah.
Okay. Scott says near the end that one of the most important is rational skills is noticing
your confusion, which was, you know, and he linked back to that lesson post again.
But that depends on an even more important proto skill of wanting things to make sense.
And I agree that that is one of the things I most want to instill in all humans the desire
for things to make sense, and that this sort of smacking people down when they're trying
to make things make sense is horrible for society. And I agree absolutely with this post.
And one of the reasons we're boosting it because yeah, that's that's a major issue.
Yeah.
Yeah, I totally agree. I got one quick side note. Did anyone hear the cat meowing?
I did.
I hope. Oh, good. I hope that that picked up for the audience. That was my cat Zelda making a cameo.
She doesn't usually come in and say hi when I'm in the office.
That was really cute.
Mine does not let me pick her up. So anyway, yeah, the the thing about the inside about
like people not needing things to make sense, I think that actually is a bit of an insight.
I didn't like strike me as this this, you know, hammer blow to my brain, but it did articulate
something because like it's often so often, especially back when I was having more discussions
about, I don't know, confusing subjects of people, and they'd be fine with bad answers.
I'm like, how could you not want to know the truth? And they're just like, I just don't care.
Um, that that sort of mindset is so alien to me that like it's it's like I can't even really model
it. But this is a nice succinct way of explaining a how that might have come about. But be just
it was just another reiteration of like, yeah, some people just don't have that built in as a thing
to desire. I'm like, okay, yeah, so that's the problem we should be solving, not make them
understand stuff, make them want things to make sense. Then they'll want to understand stuff
themselves. Yeah. So you had a bad thing that happened in your life recently, Jace?
Yeah, actually, this is even more relevant now that we had that little outro. I was,
