or something like that. Or you can do what I do and just ignore them. Because you don't have to
literally in your house. Yeah. Or you can block them. I mean, like, yeah. So like that,
there's like this weird kind of, like, somebody trying to play victim, when I don't think they
have a case for that. I've literally been on a panel with someone at a writer's con. And someone,
I don't, I forget exactly what the topic was. It was some sort of cultural warfare topic.
But someone on the panel, like, got all indignant was like, you come into my house and you tell me
XX to my face. And I'm like, okay, I am also indignant with you because you are in the right
on this topic. But this public gathering is not your house. No one came into your house and said
anything to your face. We are at a panel in a hotel where people have been invited to come. Like,
no one came to your house, bitch. I know. Yeah, I guess to bring it back though.
So I forget if I actually said that the rationalist you got kicked out of that group was a later
accused of sea lioning. I mean, I knew it was going there. It became pretty obvious. Yeah. But
so looking at that conversation, though, it really seems to me to be a failure of,
well, first of all, kind of the thing we were talking about before, of understanding where
both people are coming from. This is why I think people should do double crux. Double crux is,
or there's like, Gottman, Gottman Rappaport. All right. Unpause. So it's kind of like the
Gottman Rappaport intervention, which is actually like a couples therapy technique that I think
I have mentioned before. I'll put a link to it though. Both of these conversation styles are
based on one person talks while the other person is silent and listens and maybe takes notes.
When the first person is done, the second person has to
reiterate what they said in their own words. So my understanding of how you're feeling is
like, these things, you think that this is true and you're worried that this is going to happen.
Is that right? And then you say, yes or no. And if it's no, then they have to
keep explaining it to you in different ways and you keep rephrasing it until you feel like you
both understand the person's position. And then you switch speaker and listener. And this kind of,
that this really should be normed for conflicts because like most of the time, or at least
in a lot of conflicts that I've witnessed lately, it tends to be about people arguing about
different things or misunderstanding each other's positions, not even about the subject at hand.
And it's so frustrating watching that happen. And that was very much what happened in this case.
There was a culture clash. There's the social justice people and there's
the Socratic Girling people. So the social justice people care about
not having people's feelings hurt, not making people uncomfortable and protecting people they
perceive to be disadvantaged minorities from people of a different group. And yeah,
the other rationalist that was posting the article was a cis white guy. So points against.
How dare he be cis and white? Oh, racism is tight.
Yeah. So the other thing that made it awkward is that the rationalist is autistic. A bunch of
people in this group are also autistic. So like it's weird because it's like people have empathy
for other people until they think that they're on the enemy's side and then suddenly like the
empathy turns off. And they're like, where before they're like, oh, this person just
sometimes freezes things strangely because they struggle with understanding
like the way people, I don't know, express their feelings.
But when they're in the conflict, that's just like, oh, you're just willfully
misunderstanding me. And it's like, no, I literally want to know like, what does that mean?
Yeah. The rationalist cares about having correct models. And so
like that I was I was reading, yeah, the conversation and I know where did I see anywhere
where the rationalist seemed to get mad to say like anything that just was meant as a retaliation.
They just kept asking, like, I don't look, I don't know where you got this from. Like,
can you please explain why this is why your models are like this and like, and yeah,
it's all perfectly hilarious from no, yeah, it's all perfectly hilarious from inside our own
little sanity bubble. But like, it's just exasperating when, you know, you're either thinking of
times this has happened in your life or you've seen it happen. And it's just I just don't have
any patience for it. That's why I'm just a big fan of I never have any trouble. Again, maybe
I haven't been on Facebook since like 2016. I have an account to coordinate social events.
And I updated my status when I got married. But like, I don't think I posted anything in
three or four or five years. And it's like, I think I remember I was running some arguments
at some point, I know I was, you know, in the early 2000s. But like, I have no trouble now just
like leaving conversation, like if they're left hanging, like, cool, fuck them. Like, and it's
not always a bad faith argument either. It's like sometimes I just don't have the time or patience
for it, even if it's a, you know, conversation that might be worth having, I just I'm not the
one to have it with. And I guess that's one of the main perks of discord is that other people
can kind of pick things up, where if it's like, if it's a direct message, then like, okay, well,
I have to reply to this, which I like getting direct messages on discord, all those are great.
And if I got one, I hate it, I'd ignore it. There's, yeah, there could be situations where
like, if someone is finding the time to just find you directly and bug you with stuff, then it's
like, all right, cool. Well, I can reply or I can not. But I'm over the point now. And I guess I
don't know quite what it's like to say now I have to reply to this. And it's like, no, you really,
really don't. You can, you can go, you can just go about your day and just let this person be wrong.
Someone's wrong on the internet.
I know if there's relevant xkcd and it came to mind immediately after I said it. But
yes, somehow that is annoying. But maybe it's just a general level of apathy that I have where I'm
just okay saying, yeah, fuck it. I think but I think that might be actionable advice. That's
why that's the reason I'm going on about it. Yeah, now it's a reasonable response. I mean,
you're just going to end up making yourself and other people upset and not really advancing either
of your goals. I try to do a like tip for two tats strategy, kind of where I default to assuming
good faith. I'll try to let steel man someone's position and then like talk to them about it.
If they just keep not engaging in the conversation in a way that feels productive.
Then I walk away after a few iterations of that, like, I've sometimes been able to have really
great conversations with people where they do actually come away at least like a little bit
more humble about their idea. Most often, that's not the case. Okay, so we real quick,
don't shame and slap down people for asking questions to try to get out of the truth.
That's terrible and really hurts everything about society. Okay, onto listener feedback, Steven.
No, that's good. I think that's the ultimate takeaway. Yeah, I guess there's a quick one
here from supreme switch on one of our Reddit threads from one of our episodes. And I just
thought I'd give a quick, my own quick answer on it. And oh, yeah, this is my way. Yeah, so I
wanted to grab it because I felt like it was a quick one. We don't have a lot of time for a large
section here. But basically, they had said, I have to pause the episode a bit where you realize
the intuition pump of how much debt would I be willing to take on to be in universe where I
have left where I have the thing I want. And so the thing I want is to work a job with to work
a non labor job. So what in your opinions, what trades slash field, you know, get a degree,
there's sorry, slashes, what trade fields that go in slash get a degree, if I'm willing to take
out a student loan. And I my own quick answer for that is like, I'm for for non labor jobs,
it depends on what you like, I didn't know I'd like programming, I enjoyed it, I recommend
automate the boring stuff to anybody who wants to give it a shot. You can Google Google that it's
a free book for Python introduction. There's w three schools that just shows basically a good
crash course for several programming languages and tools. If you like that sort of thing, and you
find fun with it, it's the kind of thing you can get a job in in six months if you go to boot camp
and get hired. Not non programming jobs, I mean, or excuse me, yeah, non programming, non labor
jobs. I mean, there's there's the zillion, right? There's there's anything business related, if you
want to be a manager of literally anything. I guess I don't have very specific advice outside of
programming other than it's easy to get into. But it's not for everybody, I totally acknowledge
that. Yeah, a lot of people when that came up, I think a lot of people did mention programming
boot camps. It depends. First of all, I'm assuming by non labor, he means, or they mean non physical
labor. Because, you know, pretty much everything is labor if you're working for someone else.
But like, I don't know what working at a Starbucks campus physical labor probably because
they're standing and manipulating objects. I'm assuming this is like, you know, sitting at a
desk type job. And how much debt you have to get into to get into one of those really depends on
how much you want to make. Because you can get into a lot of entry level jobs with no degree at all.
Like, I know this is what almost 20 years ago that this happened to me, but I dropped out of
college and then became basically an office assistant. And it paid shit like 950 an hour.
But it was sitting at a desk, sometimes like getting up to file things and run copies and
stuff. But it's not what one thinks of as a manual labor job. And from there, I worked my way up
into accounting, which actually plays pretty darn decently. But if you're willing to take
shit wages, there's a lot of things you can do being a receptionist, a receptionist at a front
desk, being an office assistant, doing data entry, a lot of things like that. Some low level
accounting work like accounts payable stuff generally doesn't require schooling. So the
amount of debt you have to take on could be very minimal to nothing. But yeah, the more debt you
take on, the more likely it is that you can jump right into something that pays better and is more
fulfilling. And it depends on your proclivities too. Like, I mean, I did a boot camp that cost
$16,000. You know, but if you like people and you think you'd hate working behind a computer by
yourself all day, you know, I mean, and you want to eventually make money, but you're patient,
that's another reason that I did a boot camp is that I have no fucking patience.
Like, you know, be a teller at a bank, work your way up to management, work your way up to branch
or to a regional management, then you can, you know, do whatever you want. But I think it's,
I guess the question might be too big, but yeah, Supreme Switch, feel free to hit,
you can hit me up on Reddit if you want, or, you know, join the discord and tag me there.
Career advice is not something I have a lot of comfort giving just in broad strokes, just because
I don't know you or your situation, but, you know, like, if you're, if you're patient and you like
working with people, there's a zillion options. And if you're impatient and don't like working
with people, there are still lots of options. I have a lot of comfort with giving people career
advice and have had many jobs and changed careers a lot. And actually, I really wanted to do an
episode of career hacking at some point. As far as what job you should have,
well, it really depends on your definition of labor. I wasn't sure if you just mean like,
you don't want to work at FedEx, stacking boxes, or at Amazon. But what about working for
DoorDash or UberEats? Does that count as labor? There's all kinds of side gigs that you could
grab in the meantime, or even like build into a career. Stuff you could do from home, like a
transcription, you need like a little bit of startup equipment for that, like a foot pedal,
to start and stop audio, so you can type maximally fast. If you can learn something like
medical transcription or legal transcription, then you can make more money. There's Amazon
Mechanical Turk also has like little mini, they call them hits, it's like a human something task.
Things that still require humans that aren't fully automated yet, but they only take
a few minutes. And you make like a few cents per, but you can just keep doing that.
You could, you know, go on Fiverr and do like, I don't know, whatever skill you might have,
like say, you can do graphics design, even if you can only do one specific thing.
I was trying to do it silently, but I realized I should have just said something.
That pen clicking is insanely loud. It's way louder than your voice.
Are you clicking a pen like this next to the microphone?
I'm clicking a pen, it's not near the microphone, but I guess the microphone loves that sound.
I'm gonna just put the pen down, so I don't just do that by impulse. Should I just repeat the
things I said? I think it is totally audible. I just figured that going forward it would have,
I was trying, I don't know what I was thinking with waving my hand, like that would be distracting.
Sorry, now you're gonna have to cut this out. No, it's okay. It's totally, I wouldn't encourage
anybody to pause at any point and like gather their thoughts or look something up or whatever.
We have a better podcast that way once it's edited. Right on. There's, the website 80,000 hours is
effective altruist specific, but they have a lot of career advice. There's people that'll coach you.
There's also the less wrong article, which I believe is called Optimal Income. It's old now.
It still works. It's about, if you're under 30, you can get a working visa to Australia.
You can get a lot of basic jobs that pay quite well.
I think the one that they like recommended in particular was working at a hotel,
where I imagine you could probably work at a hotel and just be the person at the front desk.
It's not labor, but they give you, I think about 30, 40k annual income, and they also give you
food and a place to live because you could just stay in a hotel room and like that they actually
have these packages for their employees. And then it's not taxable. So you can send all of your money
back to the US. So it's a way that you could just like, you know, if you want to fuck off for a year
and go bartend in Australia. Phoenix's brother did that.
Teaching languages in other countries is another option too.
Yeah, that's a good one. There's also boot camps. So if you're just concerned about,
if you're concerned about the money of going back and how much it would cost to go back and get
another degree, first of all, I'd say if you have your heart set on something, if I can do it,
we can get scholarships, there's grants out there. Even if you do end up going into debt,
if you end up in a career that you love, you can pay it off, especially if you're smart.
I went to a boot camp that was quite inexpensive. I managed to get a scholarship by just writing
an essay about why I thought I would be good at the job. Luckily, my house had recently burned
down and was struck by lightning. So I got noticed by the scholarship people. But yeah, that's
how I got into doing cancer research and I didn't have to go to med school.
Yeah, I want to do a whole episode on how you can do that. I have a lot of things to say about it
and this is going on for a bit. No, that's great. There's a lot of training to cover there. I think
that that's a good jumping off point for when we get around to an episode like that. Yeah.
This isn't quite specific, but I had to just throw out there that Rudy Hoffman emailed me after
our last episode aired like a week later and he said that he had had a handful of inquiries to
get started with chronic paperwork and somebody emailed us at the Bayesian Conspiracy and said
that they had at least submitted the inquiry for it. That made my day. I hope none of us have to
get frozen, but if we do, there's a non-zero chance that we'll get to reunite in the future and I
think that's just amazing. I don't know, even saying it puts a smile on my face. I don't do
a lot of stuff with positive externalities, so that made my day, so I had to share that right
moment. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah. There was this. No, go ahead. I was going to go on to the next
feedback, but did you want to say another thing about that one? No, I'm good. Should I read this
one from The Great Nick? Yeah, did we want to cover that one? Yeah, if we can do so in somewhat
shorter time. Yeah, I think I can cover this quickly because it was just some advice. The Great
Nick was just writing to say that they heard the brief discussion at the end of our podcast about
how rationality is too white. Slate Star Codex, of course, has a great discussion of this and
there's a link to Black People Are Less Likely, which I'll stick in our notes as well. That sounds
like a truncated title, but it's not, which is kind of funny. Yeah, I mean, that's kind of the
point, though, because it could be the title of many articles. They pulled out the most relevant
paragraph. For the record, here's a small sample of other communities where Black people are strongly
underrepresented runners. Oh, and before you start, I looked it up just before we started this,
Black people are either 12% of the US population or 14%, depending on if you count mixed racial or
not. Runners, 3%. Bikers, 6%. Furries, 2%. Wall Street senior management, 2%. Occupy Wall Street
protesters, unknown but low. One source says 1.6%, but likely an underestimate. BDSM,
unknown but low. Tea party members, 1%. Tea party. American Buddhist, about 2%. Birdwatchers,
4%. Environmentalists, Wikipedia contributors, atheists, vegetarian activists,
