I think last episode talking about a discord group that I'm a member of that's some local Denver,
like 2030 somethings with a lot of like cool interests. And they were sharing,
like, for example, they were doing this kind of special interest webcam thing where people would
make a presentation about something that they thought was cool, or that they're an expert in
that they wanted to teach to someone else. So it's just it was a little bit shocking when
one of my rationalist friends who I added to the discord, I think, linked a post from Slate
Start Codex in response to something that somebody was asking about. And yeah, I know where this is
going. Yeah, you know, because you were, it's really funny that before we were recording,
Eneesh just texted, man, like, do you guys know about what did you say? Like, do you know what
sea lioning is? And like, I was like, I got this like, chilled on my spine, because I was like,
wait, did you read my mind? No, it's just that I've hated the sea lioning comic for a long time,
and this immediately brought it to mind. Yeah, so hang on, holding my thoughts back together,
time stamping. So it turns out that a bunch of people in this group are part of the social
justice movement. And they don't like Scott Alexander. He's a Nazi, don't you know? Yes,
he's a Nazi. He wants like eugenics to be a thing. He hates feminism. And I forget what else
he was accused of. But um, yeah, a bunch of people just kept dogpiling on the person who
had posted the thing and going, Oh, haven't you heard that like this, this bad thing? I don't
know where they were going. They probably like some social justice receipts website, but they
managed to find like the they managed to find a post that Scott had actually titled or wrote
as a caveat in the beginning. I think this is probably the most controversial post I've made.
And like, I really hope that this doesn't get taken out of context or something, sure enough.
Like, this person's like, Oh man, he said like this. What was it? Oh, I know what it was. It was
the the one where he was talking about Scott Aronson, who was often confused for Scott Alexander
due to their similar names. And it was it was the untitled, right? Yeah, the one about feminism,
is that untitled? Untitled was also about feminism. He's done more than one post on it,
but I think untitled is the famous one. But well, famous for being quote unquote controversial.
Yeah, so listeners haven't like read untitled, I want to explain what it is after I described
this interaction. A person found this post pulled out a bunch of quotes out of context that said
things about feminism being bad. And said, Oh yeah, like this guy is the worst, he hates women,
he, you know, blah, blah, blah. And I think in particular, they somebody else jumped in and said,
Oh yeah, I've like always hated that author. You know, he only hates feminism because
some feminists were mean to him in college. And the person who had posted the original
article said, I don't think he ever said that. Like, no, no, definitely. He said that.
Well, where did you see it? Oh, I don't know. But I definitely said it. Well, could you provide
any evidence of this? Because I maybe like read the whole post that you're linking from. So like,
the discussion was the, the rationalist person was doing Socratic Girling. And I read back through,
thankfully, was not a part of this conversation. I got dragged in after the fact,
after things had kind of cooled down, and they closed the thread and everything.
And the rationalist got kicked out of the group. Surprise. And yeah, I read through the
conversation. The way I was reading the tone was very much like the same tone that the kid
in this article was using like, where did you hear that? Like, how do you know that that's true?
Um, are you, are you sure about that? Like, because I have this other evidence that says this
other thing. And people got very upset because they thought that he was being hostile and fighting
with them by asking questions like, can you show me some evidence for that thing? Because that seems
completely incorrect. I love that the rest of you tried to understand. Yeah, I love that the
rationalist community has this norm of it is never bad to ask for sources. Like people may not give
you sources, they may not have them on hand or may not have the time, but no one's ever going
to get mad at you for asking for a source. Yeah, like, I love hanging out with rationalists because
I've had the experience so many times of just somebody, I don't know, talking about a thing,
you ask like, Oh, how does that work? Oh, I don't know, actually. And then both of you pull out
your phones and look it up, or you go ask another person at the right, you know, like who's the
expert and whatever, and it becomes a discussion. Normal people don't do that. And it's baffling
to me. Actually, one of my earliest experiences with Phoenix was we were driving around probably
going to Chipotle. And we're talking about livers for some reason, liver transplants,
in particular. And so livers can be cut up. Like you don't have to, first of all, I was like,
wait, liver transplant, you only have one liver? Like, are they from cadavers? And Phoenix was
like, no, I'm pretty sure that you can get them from, you can be a liver donor.
Livers apparently have Wolverine's mutant healing factor. Yeah.
So we can also donate lobes of your liver. Because yeah, they regenerate like we'll
survive that. Yeah, if only. But basically. But then we were like, but then like, how does,
I don't know, like how does certain medications poison your liver? If it can grow back?
So well, and we start like, we're just still driving to Chipotle, but Phoenix was on their
phone looking up these answers. And then we were like having this whole discussion about it. And
I was just like, awesome. This is this is a very refreshing conversation that we have. And like,
finally. So back to the original conflict, I guess I'll call it. Maybe I could use the less
like charged word interaction. I was definitely conflict people were upset. After the rationalist
had had posted the thing, a bunch of people got upset. The person who was moderating the channel
that the discord, the server, yeah, the server, private message him and said,
you need to either apologize to the people that you harmed or I'm going to have to ask you to
leave this group. And the rationalist was like, nah, left. Yeah. It's like, no, I've fallen prey
to this particular, actually like specifically, he's like, I've fallen prey to this particular
trap before. So like, no, thanks. And I asked him about that after the fact. And he said that
actually he had been in a group that did this exact same sort of thing. And after he came out
and apologized. It was like now like he was the lowest person on the totem pole. So it was like
everybody's still like, oh, that's the bad guy. Like, and also I guess he like, lowered himself
in status by apologizing. And therefore that they were like continuing to make him like prove
that he was sorry about that thing he said that one time.
Well, now everyone knows he might be a Nazi.
Yeah, fuck all that. I think the the misappropriation of the word harm over the last like decade has
driven me a little insane about it. That was gone. Well, I'm just saying like, you didn't harm anybody
by asking questions. It like, it's not impossible to imagine that you could cause someone stress
by asking them questions. If you're causing people to stress by asking for sources, then they're
stupid people who should be stressed, and they need to work out what's stressing them out about
that. But, and I realized that's a pretty, pretty sweeping statement. But what can I say,
that rustles my jimmies. Like, I the idea that like, Oh, no, this person says something offensive,
I've been harmed. I don't know. Whatever reason, that's one of my berserk buttons. I feel harmed
hearing people use the word harmed the wrong way. That was a joke. So I just needed to interject
there. But what was the, you said that this hide into well, sea lining? Yes.
Yeah, so after the rationalist was kicked out of the group, which I'm still going to call it kicked
out because like, you know, being forced to like prostrate yourself and apologize for something
that you that that's totally bogus in my opinion. It's clearly just a social power play. And
that was just a trap. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. It was bullshit.
I mean, technically, they elected to leave by not submitting beneath the authority that
said you have to apologize for doing the right thing. But yeah, I mean, that's as much as being
kicked out as, you know, just getting a quick ban. Yeah, so I'll post a link to this comic.
There's this comic somebody wrote called sea lining where
Hmm. Can I describe it? Oh, yeah. Okay, because I personally kind of hate it. And it is like
famous now in a number of internet circles. But basically, it starts out with a racist saying,
man, I really hate people of this race. And they're out in public and a person of this race over
here is like, Hey, why do you hate people of my race? And she's like, I don't want to talk to you.
It's like, come on, what's what's the deal? And basically, the the the
comic is about how annoying it is when people who are discriminated against are want to know
why you hate their their people so much. And that's not how it is ever pitched when you see it online.
Because when you see it online, people are like, Oh, you're coming in here. And you're just like
asking all of us to prove these things. And we don't have to prove anything to you.
But like, when you look at it, it's about a racist being challenged on her casual public racism.
Yeah. Um,
yeah, so I think off air, you know, I had a articulation for myself of what sea lining is.
And so like, there's the deliberate version where you can go. So you're right. That is
different from how I ever see it used. Yeah, I usually see it used as blaming somebody for
saying, Oh, you're sea lining by by which they mean, you're coming in here and asking
questions in bad faith to spark stupid conversations. Yeah. And so it could be used as a charge against
somebody, like, accurately or inaccurately, or it can be used, like, if you're going to say,
this is really funny, I'm going to go in and see line r slash conservative.
Um, and it's called and it's called, what? I was going to say, it's called sea lining in
specific because if anyone hasn't seen the comment yet, the racist is racist against sea lions.
And they're like, I don't mind most sea mammals, but I could do without sea lions.
And then the sea lion is like, pardon me, I couldn't help but over here, I would like to have a
civil conversation about your statement. Would you mind showing me any evidence of any negative
thing any sea lion has ever done to you? And the lady's like, go away. And she's like, there's no
need to raise your voice. I'm right here. I'm just curious if you have any sources. And the lady's
like, you're in my house. And now the next panel is like, several hours later, she's trying to go
to bed, the sea lion is there in your bedroom. It's like, you've made a statement in public for
all to hear. Are you unable to defend the statements you make? Are you simply unwilling to have a
reason to discussion? And then it's the next morning at their breakfast table and sea lion is
still there. And he's like, I have been unfailingly polite and you two have done nothing but be rude.
She's like, I'm trying to eat my breakfast. So he says, very well, we shall resume in an hour,
which is admittedly a great punchline. And you've done a great job conveying the annoyance of the
sea lion in your rendition of their voice. And like, they're, I thought that was hilarious. I
immediately hated the sea lion, even though that they're tactically in the right. Yeah, they're
asking a fair question, but they're being super annoying about it. And it's, it's usually used
by social justice types who, you know, say something about like, man, these Nazis suck. And then
someone is like, Hey, I just want the right to own guns as defended in the Constitution. Why does
that make me, you know, the equivalent of someone who murdered Jews? And they're like, stop, go away,
you stupid Nazi, we know that you're not really here to have a civil conversation. You're just
trying to troll us and degrade the community and all that. And the Nazis like, no, no, really,
I just, you know, I'm all for states rights. I don't have anything against black people. And
they're like, get lost. We've had this conversation before we know where it's going. And so, you know,
in one sense, some people are correct when accusing people of bad faith for those questions,
because there are a lot of people who do that in bad faith. But more often than not, I've seen the
term a sea lining in practice, use just to not ever have to make any sort of defense of your
assertions. Like, if someone asks, why do you think that Scott Alexander's a Nazi? And they're
like, Oh, what, you guys see lining me now? Everyone knows Scott Alexander's a Nazi, just
read his blog. Just read my collection of out of context quotes. Yeah, his blog.
This was right around when I left Facebook forever, somebody was, they brought me in because I met
them at a party. And they were in an argument with somebody that they knew who was like a master's
biology student or something. And she had the person that was posting was like, Oh, Richard
Dawkins is this terrible misogynist pig or whatever racist or something. I forget what it was. And
my friend chimes in and she's like, Hey, can you like, like help back me up here? And I come in
and I'm asking like, So where does he say this? And she's like, Oh, you know, it's complicated.
You need, you know, I'm a master's in biology, you would need a maybe a doctorate or you need,
you need a professional understanding. I'm like, I need a professional understanding to
follow a link to a post or to a page source. Like, what the hell are you talking about? And it was
just, I guess I'm not sure which one's in that situation is the sea lion, I guess me because
I'm asking for sources. But I was doing it in a good natured way. Like, I mean, I was, I was
shutting down who I thought was an idiot, but I was doing, I wasn't doing it rashly. I'm starting
to see why you hate the word sea lining. Yeah. Well, that's, that's when I read this post, I
immediately thought of sea lining because what's called Alexander is saying in his post is that,
you know, asking questions is a good thing. It helps people get to the truth and you shouldn't
slap down people who are trying to get the truth, especially if they're students in the classroom.
But in general, if someone's like trying to explore a subject, that's a good thing. Don't,
don't try to stop that. And sea lining is literally the or accusations of sea lining is
literally the exact opposite of that. It's, if someone comes in asking questions,
it means they're trying to destroy your community and disrupt things. And you should immediately
shame them and or kick them out of the group, instead of engaging them, because there is no
good faith to be had here at all. And it's like the stark contrast between the two, like jump to
my mind immediately as I was reading it. And is again, why I love Scott Alexander and dislike
people who bring up sea lining as a defense for their stupid shit. So I can kind of steelman
sea lining. I have been in conversations where like say that you're in a forum talking about
some specific programming language, and somebody comes in there and is is clearly like asking
questions in bad faith. This is, I feel like it needs to be a more like charged thing. Like say
that you're in a geology forum and you're a geologist and some like flat earth here comes in.
And just incessantly, like every single thread of the forum is now like full of this person.
And they've got their armed with their many questions that like they pulled from a bunch
of websites for Oh, yeah, well, what about dating works? Yeah. So, and I've even seen on feminist
blogs, you'll get some guy that's just there to fight. And they'll be like, well, did you know that
I don't know like stuff about the thing is, like I see that too. And I think the best way to
to combat people who are arguing in bad faith is just to say, hey, you're not engaging anything
directly. I think you're arguing in bad faith. And I'm not going to continue doing this. It's not
this whole ha ha, you're a sea lion ignore the troll thing because that's yeah, that's what I was
going to say. The, the example that I kind of steelman is really more of a description of a
description of a troll, though. Maybe there's like some slight differences there. So I could
see why you'd want a different word for it. But like, I'm looking at the comic now. And
I remember the main thing that like pissed me off about this comic when I first saw it is
it starts out with, it's actually got this like steampunk aesthetic, which is kind of funny,
but like, there's a man and a woman in some kind of like steam powered cart.
And the sea lion pops up next to them. And then it's like, following them down the street,
and then it's in front of their house, then it's in the kitchen, then it's in her bedroom,
and then it's the next morning. But this is stuff that happens on the internet.
Yeah, you can't, I guess people can think of their forum as their house. But the thing is,
a forum is a public space, unless, I don't know. A lot of people, yeah, I feel like a lot of people
don't treat their online places that way. They're like, get off my blog. And it's like, you could
just ban me. Or, I don't know, like if they post on Facebook, something that people then are like,
well, hold on, I don't know if I'd necessarily agree with that. And they're like, leave me alone.
I wouldn't post this to be engaged on it. It's like, you posted it on Facebook.
It's like a platform meant for social engagement. Yeah, like, they're not in your house,
they're not following you around. If you're continuing to engage in the conversation and
they're continuing to engage back, that means you're having a conversation. You could tell them,
like, honestly, I am really exhausted and kind of depressed today. And I just don't have
the spins to have this conversation with you right now. But here's some helpful links
