The thing you do is try to guess the teacher's password.
Oh, sure. I think even for the non-physicists to come out of this lesson, they're gonna say,
oh, yeah, sometimes they'll be confronted with a problem that I was trying to answer incorrectly.
Oh, you mean this specific lesson? Yeah, I think everyone would get the right
lesson from this one. But I mean, from physics classes in general that do not have this specific
trickery in them. Oh, yeah, absolutely. That's unfortunately school in a nutshell.
For most people, my physics class was amazing because my physics teacher really cared about
physics. Yeah, I mean, I don't mean to generalize over much, but if it wasn't physics,
it might have been biology, it might have been one chemistry teacher you had or something.
But I think it's even just math where it's not supposed to be password guessing,
but often you're just trying different things. I remember that on multiple choice math questions,
where it'd be, okay, let me try this function. I remember them showing us at some point.
Okay, the answer I got isn't any one of these four. Let me try this other one,
because I just didn't understand what I was doing. Yeah, they taught the teacher math terribly. They
have you just, like, the thing that always bugs me is that when students, like I hear this story
from so many people, when a student has figured out a way to solve a problem that's not the official
algorithm, then they will get yelled at and told to do it the correct way. We're learning this one,
and I'm just, it's like they don't actually want kids to understand how math works.
Yeah, that stupid, like, multiplying thing where, like, they're drawing lines between
the numbers or something, I've seen. You're talking about Common Core?
Must be. I think so. Yeah, that rings a bell. That would drive me insane.
That would not help me multiply in my head. I had to, I was helping kids with homework when
I worked at the library. There's a school across the street, and kids would all come over.
And I had to use YouTube videos to teach myself how to do the Common Core version
they were expected to do. And actually, I think that it makes sense as an introductory
long, what was it, like, long multiplication. Yeah, it's just a different algorithm to get
the same answers. Yeah, my problem is that if they make you do it that way, and if you just do it
another way, they're like, no, sorry, you didn't, you didn't draw the lines and fill in the little,
you know, partial numbers above the lines. I feel like if you get the right answer,
that should be the right answer, and they shouldn't care how you get there, which all the good teachers
did. I don't know if they're allowed to do that now or how that works, but luckily I'm not in school,
so yeah, those poor fuckers. It's good to see the teacher's password. Okay, yeah.
This one's a lot of fun. I don't have to take charge on it. I'll just say that this is another one
that I never forgot. And I think that it's, oh, yeah, dive into it, Inyash. Okay, it starts off
with EY relating how he thought that he knew what light was at nine years old because he read up on
it, and he read that light is made of waves. And then later on, when he actually did a lot more
reading on physics and contemplating and realizing how light worked, he realized that when he was
nine, he didn't know shit. He just knew the phrase light is made of waves and believed that. And he
says that there's this instinctive tendency to think that if a physicist says light is made of
waves, and the teacher says what is light made of, and the student says waves, then the student has
made a true statement. But he says that this is just a sequence of syllables. The sequence of syllables
made of waves, or because of heat conduction, it's not a hypothesis. It's just a pattern
of vibrations traveling through the air. And in school, a teacher hands you a gold star,
or an A or whatever, for saying made of waves, which must be the correct answer because the
teacher heard a physicist emit the same sound vibrations. And since verbal behavior is what
gets the gold star, students think that verbal behavior has a truth value. After all, either
light is made of waves or it isn't, right? And then he says, you know, ties it right back into the
last password, into the last post. If a teacher asks you why the far side of a metal plate feels
warmer than the side near the radiator, if you say, I don't know, you have no chance of getting a
gold star, you don't even get credit for class participation, if you say I don't know. So all
the incentives are aligned for you to make some sort of guess, no matter how bad that guess is.
And if you've heard phrases that the teacher have said in that semester, that are like because of
heat convection, or because of heat conduction, then maybe one of those is what the teacher wants.
So you say maybe because of heat conduction, but that's not a hypothesis about the metal plate.
It's not even a proper belief. It's just an attempt to guess the teacher's password.
Yeah. So I remember being in classes where the students were actually encouraged to
make as many random guesses, like, I don't know, as like class participation. And yeah,
there's no wrong answers or like, I don't know, but like, just shouting whatever random thing you
can think of is, yeah, very much an example of this thing. Yeah. And that's not even,
it's not even like trying to generate a bunch of hypotheses. No, like, that's really what you
should be doing. You should be maybe actually, yeah, like, guessing a bunch of random things,
but then maybe you make like, a word cloud, and start making correlations or start testing some
of the things. But he said, like, if you actually believe that, you know, because of heat diffusion,
maybe you would start measuring a few different points with a thermometer at a few different
times and trying to predict what it would say on the next measurement, you know,
because then that's something connected to an experience, rather than just a verbal behavior.
I remember, and it's really, I, it's hard to say, like, at least for me to briefly articulate what
the difference is between like, knowing something and knowing the password. But I remember when I
was reading the Feynman lectures, there was a part where, and like, I'd known all these bits before,
but he brought it home with one perfect example about how, you know, like, how to put this
succinctly without taking three minutes. Like, you've got a vessel of hot liquid. And why is it
hot? Because all the atoms are in there are moving on average pretty fast. And why does it get colder?
Because the fast ones escape. And they occasionally slow down inside. But the really fast ones get
escape velocity from the surface. And that's why like, a flatter, wider vessel will cool faster
than a smaller one. And the, so like, as the fast ones escape, the average velocity of all the
molecules in the vessel goes down to the temperature goes down. And this is why a spoonful of soup
gets cooler when you blow on it. And I'm just like, that's perfect. Like, like, I already knew that,
you know, I could blow on a spoonful of soup and it would cool down. And I knew all the other parts
involved. But tying up, I think that was one of Feynman's just true gifts that he could, he could
illustrate things in a way that sound kind of granted. A lot of his stuff is sort of like esoteric
by, you know, everyone's day to day standards. But tie it down to something as mundane as like,
you know, how you like blow on soup, right? Well, here's what's going on. I thought that was just
outstanding. Yeah. Yeah. You were asking, or you were saying that you didn't really understand the
difference between knowing a thing and then knowing the password. I think I said I couldn't,
I couldn't quickly articulate it. Yeah, I think I would quickly articulate it as a difference in
having good or bad thinking habits. There's this automatic reaction that's kind of working on muscle
memory or instinct, but actually taking the time to have epistemic humility and, first of all,
admit that you don't know to yourself or to other people and then try to figure out what to do from
there. I think that's also an uncomfortable step for a lot of people to take. People seem to be
just making up a, like I've ever seen this kind of interaction between people where they see
something weird. I don't know, like, they see a bug doing something weird and they're like,
oh man, what's that bug doing? And people will just be like, oh, maybe it's doing that thing. Yeah, okay.
Like, I think they like pulls their phone out to Google it or something. Yeah, I think a lot of the,
I know what specifically in the discord has a problem with ephocyc. And I think a lot of it
is because ephocyc is more about guessing passwords than actually trying to create explanations.
Yeah, it's just his issue is that it's largely non-testable, which I think he takes too much
issue with it. Yeah, I think some of it is obviously correct. But
those inferences you can draw from comparing our behaviors to other animals to looking at
hunter-gatherers that are still living that way in modern day.
But I do think he has a point that it is sometimes overused, especially in pop culture.
It very much is. And a lot of it is, well, like some of it is the social psychologists, but some of
it's, and yeah, maybe more of it is like psychology today or, you know, like whatever pop science outlet
is interpreting whatever study just came out. Yeah, I mean, I think all pop sciences is guilty
of being abusable and like misinterpreted by the masses, right? Well, they actually actively will
change the meaning of something in order to make it more clickable. I remember distinctly,
there was this article that was published in some journal, I don't remember, but
whatever site, whatever like wired or whatever had, I shouldn't diswire it actually like wired,
whatever bad psychology publication had ended up writing an article about it for the masses,
had titled it. What was it? It was autism or autistic children are shown to have more masculine
faces than average, lending some credibility to the belief that autism means like an extreme male
brain. And I was like, that doesn't seem right. And that I read the article and the article said that
actually, the children had more androgynous faces. Like, and it didn't, I don't think it mentioned
anything about the extreme male brain theory. It was literally like, yeah, they're trying to find
something sensationalist and controversial. Yeah, yeah, I just saw one on, I mean, this is a bit
of an aside, but since I don't follow any of that stuff, because mainly like those resources,
they always, you know, I read once a month, or I hear secondhand once a month, and then I'm
shown an article about how we're going to be destroyed by meteorite or something. And it's
like, Oh, no, it's passing within, you know, 1000 kilometers of us will be fine. Like, I remember
at some point, someone last year asked me like, Hey, is this is third? Like, are we gonna get hit
by a meteorite next year? Is this cross your radar yet? And I was like, no, and I'm pretty sure
like it was going to happen. I would have heard about it. Right. So I didn't, I didn't, you know,
even feel the need to look into it. I did remember that at some point, Stephen Colbert had on Neil
deGrasse Tyson and asked him about it. And he shut it down. But what was I going to say? It was like
vapors, people who use nicotine, or who vape to get nicotine have like the same cardiovascular
issues, or can have the same cardiovascular issues as people who smoke. And then the sample size
consisted 100% of people who use to smoke. There's so much data manipulation going on in vaping
studies. And I think I'd, I think some of it is the tobacco companies trying to
bad mouth vaping, because they're taking their business away. And then a lot of it is just
people that want to demonize whatever is like the popular thing. I remember
Is that is that what it is? Just people hating things being popular?
That's it. This is a trend that I see all the time. Remember, like people are eating
tide pods. And then suddenly it was like, all teenagers are now eating tide pods through
reservation. And I was looking for just the president. Oh, here's it. Here's it. Yeah,
here's the thing. I was looking for engagement rings, because Phoenix and I might do that.
And I came across a photo of someone who had these transdermal implants of like three diamonds
in their finger. And it was I suddenly remembered this article. It came out like a few years ago,
but it was like, millennials are ditching the traditional wedding ring in favor of implantable
like pierce. It was like one person had done this. Somebody had seen the photos of it and
just made the next logical leap, which is like this entire generation is going to stop buying
wedding rings and get transdermal implants instead, which I think I saw it on Tumblr originally,
which was they had just kind of taken this whoever posted it, taken a screenshot of
mainly centered on the title and you could see some of the article and they just wrote in all
caps. No, they're fucking not. Yeah, millennials are killing the diamond industry and just I work
at a grocery store. Yeah, we didn't do diamonds for ours. Like you can make a perfect diamond so
cheaply. Yeah, we that's that's mainly why I wasn't into it. And then I yeah diamonds aside,
we can wrap up the password guessing, which is I think yeah, he relates back to the school system
and he says in the school system, it's all about verbal behavior, whether written on paper or spoken
aloud. Verbal behavior gets you a gold star or a failing grade. Part of unlearning this bad habit
is becoming consciously aware of the difference between an explanation and a password. It happened
to me when I was nine years old, not because I was stupid, but because this is what happens by
default. This is how human beings think unless they are trained not to not to fall into this trap.
Humanity stayed stuck in holes like this for thousands of years. And I think this is another
good time to reiterate like how useful it is to read up on the history of science. I think part
part of the reason that science seems so like boring and opaque and just mundane to people is
that you know, people look at whatever interesting thing like I can flip a switch on my wall and
the light comes out on the ceiling. And I have a vague ish idea of why that happens. But like most
people aren't inclined to like take it as like holy shit, you can just create light like that.
It's not a miracle to them because they assume that the explanation is mundane because they
know it's understood. But like there's such a difference between, well, I guess to put it
in historical context, like basically everything we know is not stuff that was like always understood
essentially everything we know. And so there's just this tendency to us, like especially when
learning chemistry, you know, you start with like the Bohr model or something, right? And it's like,
okay, yeah, this is 200 years old. For the rest of human history, we had no idea what the fuck was
going on. But we're going to start with the thing 200 years ago, because this is where we start
chemistry. Well, not it's not just that we didn't know what was going on. It's that we thought we
did know because we had a password that was, you know, fulfilling someone's requirements. Yeah,
exactly. Or not necessarily always God, but yeah, something like that, like this, this is the case
because of this belief that we have. But it feels like you know something and you have an explanation,
but you really don't because you can't use that to constrain what you believe in any way. And
so for thousands of years, you think you have an explanation and you don't look deeper.
Yeah, if you're wondering why lightning destroyed your neighbor's house, Thor did it,
isn't an explanation. Like, because then you won't be able to predict whose house is going to get
struck next. And maybe it's the guy that was pissing on Thor. So I mean, you know, that's one
way you could test it, you could see if the person was a blasphemer and so was the next five, or you
could see, Oh, that person had on a very decorative, you know, aluminum or metal pipe sticking out of
their house. Or they had a very, very large tree that's the tallest tree in the neighborhood,
like, that was actually sitting too close to the house and some metal shutters. Yeah, to be a little
specific. Oh, is that what happened to your house? That's my working hypothesis. Okay.
Have you rolled out the possibility that Thor just hates you? Um, I actually am more convinced
that Thor, I'm more convinced that Thor was trying to help because that actually worked out pretty
well for me. I was trying to sell this house. It wasn't that the market was terrible. I wanted to
get out. So I got insurance money, which ended up being like, more than I would have gotten for
trying to sell the house. I got out quickly. All worked out. Praise be to Thor. Yeah.
Well, our next two episodes or our next two less wrong posts will be science as attire and fake
causality. Awesome. Those are also both really good memorable posts. What is the sequence these
are all a part of? I don't know. There was like no sequence breakdowns back in the day. There was
just, you know, a sequence of posts that were put out every day. I feel like this is probably
map and territory, which that makes sense. Yeah. And for me, I think those are the ones,
yeah, a lot of those just stuck out really well for me. And so I remember both these next ones as
well. And I can also like recall time as I'm like, Oh my God, that's what's happening right here in my
life. Anyway, so, but we're not talking about those right now. We're talking about those next
time. Right now we're going to talk about a post on Slate Star Codex called Socratic Grilling,
which, hey, kind of ties into all this stuff about password guessing and all that fun business.
That only does it tie into it. He literally links to the guessing the teacher's password
post from here. So that was kind of cool. But it starts out with a fun dialogue between a teacher
and a student that can be done as an audio drama. Oh, I'll be the student. Excellent. In that case,
is it okay from the teacher? You want to be the teacher, Steven? No, I'll be the other student
who's not talking. Do your professor querel voice. Oh, really? Do it. Yes. Okay. Hold on a second.
Mr. Potter. Okay, there we go. I would say Mr. Potter to get in the mood.
Mr. Potter, many diseases like the common cold are spread by germs when one infected person
