yoga enthusiasts, college baseball players, swimmers, fan fiction readers, unitarian,
universalists. They're all in the low single digit percentages. And then they finished it by
saying you're probably aware of it, but it's something I also quote from when people complain
about how white something is, which I was aware of it and I guess... I thought of it explicitly.
This is not an answer to the problem of why Black people are underrepresented,
it just shows that they tend to be universally underrepresented.
Go ahead, Anish. Oh, no, go ahead. You go. Sorry. Okay. I pretty much finished my thought. Just...
Oh, okay. Yeah, I also thought of this when we mentioned that. I didn't say anything because
we had covered this before, I believe, and there just isn't too much for me to add. Yes,
Black people are less likely to get involved in just about every sort of special interest thing
that there is in the US, and that's just a thing, and I'm not going to blame Black people for that,
nor am I going to blame white people for it. And if people bring up, well, your group is, you know,
far more white than the US average, I'm like, okay, I'm sorry for being born white. I wish
I could help that, but I'm not going to go through all the effort that it takes to be transracial
just to please you, you know? I don't think that's what they're suggesting, but that's fine.
Okay. I wonder, like, so the second highest, the highest one on here is 6% bikers,
which we'd expect 14%, 13%-ish, if it's going to be evenly distributed. The second highest is
birdwatchers, which I wonder if it's overrepresented because, like, I wonder if that,
like, does that mean that... I wonder what percentage of birdwatchers are any given group,
but I think that 4%, I don't know, anyone who watches birds. I mean, I watch birds at the window,
but you know what I mean. But just, like, not professionally. Just casually.
Yeah, I'm a casual birdwatcher. I look at a bird occasionally.
I can recognize a Robin in a, what's the one, the national bird called Eagle.
So by bird, we mean the 60s English slang for chick, right?
Was it the 60s? I just remember Austin Powers says it,
and he was from the 60s in that movie, right? Oh, yeah, that was in the UK, maybe the...
Anyway, this is a digression. No, but the point stands, and I think that makes a good point. So,
like, certainly, it sounds like I don't have to take the criticism, well, rationality is disproportionately
black, and that's a problem with rationality, because it seems to be a problem, if it's a problem,
I mean, people can do whatever they want. But if there is something keeping people,
keeping black people from being involved in whatever community they want, it doesn't seem like it's
unique or even unusually prevalent in the rationalist community.
I think, yeah, a lot of activities, I don't even know, like, yeah, religions they have in here,
whatever, a lot of stuff does tend to be overwhelmingly white and male, and there's
probably a lot of really complicated factors that do have to do with having social privilege,
probably like being wealthier, having more free time to pursue these activities,
discrimination, whether intentional or kind of unintentional, keeping people out.
But that's a big problem to solve, and we had mentioned in the show, where we talked about
this, that you can kind of do outreach, but that's really what you can do. I mean, you
can't just go kidnap a bunch of racially diverse people off the street and force them to join your
cult. I guess you can, but you shouldn't, probably.
Some of that is probably the privilege or resources you're saying, but there is no cost
to getting into running, or fan fiction reading, or being a Unitarian Universalist.
The cost is time. I guess, I don't know.
I mean, if you're forward, you're working two jobs and raising kids,
you probably don't have time to pick up a new hobby, like bird watching,
or reading fan fiction. My general answer for this is that I think white people,
and maybe white males more than white females, I don't know, but white people in general are just
weird, and so they find all these weird esoteric things that are like, oh, that's super interesting.
I'm going to go do this thing for a next year or two, and I don't have a problem with that.
I think that's awesome, and I specifically have some weird things that I'm into,
but I don't think there's anything wrong with other people not being into that kind of thing.
I see organizations sometimes really going very far to try to get their racial or whatever
makeup closer to representing the average of a nation, and it seems to distort things a lot
more than they necessarily need to be distorted. Sometimes people just aren't interested in your
thing. Or they've never heard of it. I mean, bikers specifically. Bikers is the highest one on here,
and bikers is the most expensive one on here to do, well, except for Wall Street Senior Management,
Depends if they're talking about, I don't know if they mean bicycles or motorcycles.
I assume they mean like, you know, bikers like Harley's, Gaines, that kind of thing,
because no one says bikers for bicycles, they say cyclists.
Oh, yeah, I'm glad to clarify. I assume cycling, but yeah, that is called cycling.
They can both be expensive and time-consuming hobbies. Someone who currently has an electric bike,
fixed gear bike, and a motorcycle that I'm repairing.
Yeah. But bikers is the highest percentage on there, and bikers is also the one that's going
to cost you at minimum thousands of dollars to get into. Yeah. Unless you find a really cheap
motorcycle that your friends ex abandoned, and you know somebody who's really good at fixing
motorcycles for cheap, haha. But I have, yeah, no, I have, I have networks, though, like that, so
it's hard to, yeah. Nice. Speaking of time constraints. I kind of like talking about the
the dynamics of this, because it's interesting, but I think that, yeah, maybe we should wrap up.
That's what I was going to get at, is speaking of time-consuming, this has been going on for a
bit, and I've been at my desk for 12 hours and 30 minutes today, because I didn't really take a
lunch. So, um, no, I mean, it's, yeah, it's part of the deal, but that's all right. Well, you should
go stretch and eat some food. I'm gonna. I've been, I didn't mention this is pre-gaming, but
I was talking with Inesh. I've been doing yoga the last few days. It's tight. I know what you're
doing. Oh, yeah. So, everyone try yoga. You know, if it hurts, don't do it as hard, like all the
ones that bend over, grab your feet. I just lean over, but I keep my back straight and stuff. It's
great. Try yoga. Don't try yoga if you're a wide oppressor, though, because there's too many white
people in it already. Right. Yeah, this isn't talking to most of our listeners, probably.
I'm kidding. Everyone should do it. Who cares? I've been doing yoga, too.
Great. Yeah, we'll have to compare notes. I could recommend a really easy, like, relaxing one.
I'll put it in the show notes, so they'll send it to you. Awesome. Sounds good. And I, I think it's
been a while since I think to Patreon. I think it's probably been more than, we don't really keep
track, but I'm thinking this one. And I get, I decided before we recorded, I was going to rethink
them. And I saw the name and I'm stoked. I get to thank Sandcat, who's been a supporter for a long
time. And I see them on the Discord once in a while. And every interaction I've had with them is awesome.
So shout out to Sandcat. Thank you so much for your generous support of our podcast. And really,
I can, since I interact with this person indirectly via the internet, I can say you're awesome, too.
Yeah. Thank you, Sandcat. You help make this thing happen.
Yes. And, and Sandcat actually can make it happen in a more literal sense because
they're donating at the tier that says they can co-host. So Sandcat, if you want to co-host and,
you know, talk about something you want to talk about or tell us how we're wrong about things or
anything at all, like, you know, let us know because you have earned the privilege.
I reached out to them about that and they're busy, but I think it, yeah, this is a friendly
ping. Keep this on your back burner. You're, you're invited, so. Should we see-line them until they
get on the show? So I hear you can co-host. Why haven't you done that yet? Can you give me any
good reason why you haven't co-hosted yet? Good idea. Let's make it, let's make them hate us.
That's how we get more. That's what you get for donating to our Patreon.
All right. Well, on the note where I've clearly lost my mind and can no longer form articulate
sentences, I think we should cross it off here. So, um, I think with that, that's going to be our
episode. And, uh, did we ever not let them post for next episode? Yes, we mentioned them. Cool.
Do you want to mention them again? Yeah, sure. I can do that. Let me scroll back. The next ones
are Science as a Tire and Fake Causality. Too good ones. All right, people. Well, we'll see you
again in a couple of weeks and everyone have fun and stay safe out there all the time.
Stay healthy. Drink lots of water. Wash your hands. Yeah.
All right. Watch all the good TV. See ya. Bye.
