Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Amy Ashbrodsky. I'm Steven Zuber. I'm Jay Sticky.
And today we are going to be talking about a late-star codex post, as we sometimes do,
because they're awesome. But before we do that, we're going to do our less wrong posts,
because we do those at the top of the show now.
Yes, we do. So, first one is guessing the teacher's password, right?
No, fake explanations. Damn it.
Although the two of them are so, like, I almost feel like they should be one post because
they're so reliant on each other. When I read fake explanations, I was like, isn't this
guessing the teacher's password? But then I read guessing teacher's password, and I was like,
oh, no, okay, it's just, it's the lead into it.
Yeah, I think that on occasion, maybe he had, like, posts drafted, and he's like,
I don't feel like I'm going to have time tomorrow. I can split this into two.
Yeah. That's one of the nice things about blogging.
And it's also a nice thing about writing serial fiction. I noticed, I was talking about this
with Brian. I don't know if it was on the air or not, so I don't mind repeating it,
and I know we're already off topic. But I didn't know their podcast called We Want More,
which is like a, we've got Ward rip off where my co-host Brian hasn't read the book and I have,
so we're going through it section, you know, a couple chapters at a time. And if you look at
the release dates for chapters, there are several where like, he released three in one day, and then,
you know, five in a week, and then a couple months off, and then like a fucking year off.
And I wonder if he had just staggered his releases and say, I'm going to do two a week.
Or even one a week.
Or even one a week.
A little smoother. Yeah, or just one a week. I mean, one a week, we'd still be,
they'd still be coming out, right?
No, there's, there were only like 132. That's two years. Two and a half.
Yeah, I guess you're right. In any case, it may, yeah, maybe it might have even taken less time
than it took, but it still would have left some more buffer. But I think probably the reason is
that like his writing process is more of, I'm doing this to jumpstart my writing, not as
like projects to release a, you know, a story. So.
Oh, he also apparently ran into a hard problem of how to advance to the next
plot point that he wanted to do after Ask-a-Ban. And like, pretty much the entire spew arc was him
trying to get to a point where Hermione would attack Draco and have that be believable.
And then like, as he was finishing up the spew arc, he was like, oh,
I can do the Mr. Hatton Cloak, uh, Groundhog Day attack and like fix that in a single scene.
And he did and it was wonderful. And I'm not, I'm not sad that he did the spew arc because I
love the spew arc and I think it's a lot of fun, but it's very incogruous with the rest of the,
the fic. It doesn't quite fit, you know?
It fits more of the earlier theme of the fic where it was kind of slapstick and,
but uh, the thing I liked about it was that it addressed the weird thing that a lot of fiction
does now where it's got like, we're going to pretend that like sexism and racism doesn't exist
in this world. But like, you'll notice that like there's still more male teachers than female
teachers at Hogwarts. And like, so Hermione notices this, at first is trying to like bring on the full
feminist, uh, movement in the wizarding world. Yeah. And then they kind of
are like protesting and start talking to some of the kids and it's like, oh, wait, like you mean
actually people are pretty equal in the wizarding world. Yeah. Wait, like you muggles discriminate
against each other based on skin color. Yes. Skin color. That was a cool scene. It's, yeah.
Speaking of digression. Oh, go ahead. No, actually, I was going to do more digression,
so you should do your digression because I did my digression. Well, I was because Steven basically
let us off with that digression. Uh, are you guys familiar with time to crate? Uh, time to what?
Crate? Uh, like a crate, like a box. Yeah. No, I don't, I've never heard of this. It used to be
a metric for first person shooters after a doom and quake were big things and everybody and their
brother was making their own first person shooter. Uh, a popular metric, this is kind of like the
Bechtel test and that it was, you know, like basically a joke, uh, is that you can tell how
bad a first person shooter is by how long it takes you to get to your first crate because the crate
is just a standard cube with a skin thrown on it. It is where the level designer has completely run
out of ideas and motivation and it's just being like, Hey, I'm lazy. There's an object here in
your way. It's a crate. And so time to create was supposed to be, you know, sort of a proxy for how
bad something is. And famously, there is a game with a negative time to create because you see one
in the intro cutscene before you even get to be, uh, control the character. But, uh, I was just
thinking we should start having a time to digression metric for our episodes. And this one will
probably have the shortest one yet. Yeah, I'll take full ownership of that. Is the crate like a
loot, like a crate with like a new weapon in it or something you have to break to get past or what?
Literally any crate at all, but usually they were just objects that you could like hide behind and
move around and, you know, block line of sight, that kind of thing. It's just a square. It's just a
square. Well, cute. It's the easiest thing to make in a 30 modeling. Yeah. I guess I can say that
being a joke as a thing is like, especially in first person shooters, those serve a lot of purpose.
And you're like, here's how the, here's how the cover system works. Like that, that should happen
in the tutorial. Yes, but you're also supposed to, you know, put some effort into things. So
instead of just like dropping a crate into a play in front of a player, make it something atmospheric
in your level, you know? Okay, I was mainly rationalizing because I felt like the crates that
are in the opening chamber of breath of the wild were aptly placed and it didn't bring the game
down. But because they're atmospheric, they were dusty and they were old. It fits perfectly. So
my game is preserved. All right. Breath of the Wild had a lot of good crates, actually.
It did. They textured squares really well. I mean, then they just, real good squares. Then they just
completely jumped the shark with Minecraft where literally everything is a cube. Yeah, I wonder
what the time to create would be for Minecraft. Don't you have to create your own crate though?
Like that's been actual crate crate. I don't know. I have not actually played Minecraft.
I played it for about five minutes now. I was like, yeah, this isn't the game for me.
I put several, maybe several hours or some small tens of hours into it. I had a good time with it.
Never got full-fledged. But let's reduce the time to get to fake explanations.
Yeah. So yeah, let's jump right in here.
Once upon a time, there was an instructor who taught physics students.
One day, the instructor called them into the classroom, showed them a wide square plate of
metal next to a hot radiator. Students each put their hands on a plate and found the side
next to the radiator to be cool. The distant side was warm. And the instructor said, why do you
think that happens? Some students guessed convection of air currents. Others guessed strange metals
in the plate. They devised many creative explanations. None stooping so low as to say,
I don't know, or this seems impossible. And the answer was, maybe, what were you gonna say, Anash?
Oh, well, go ahead and give the answer spoiler. And the answer was, before the students entered
the room, the instructor turned the plate around. Yeah. And this is kind of like famous in
Rationalist circles now. First of all, because it's sort of like a great gotcha, right?
But I feel kind of go on. But well, I feel like it's a little unfair that that he says,
none stooped so low as to say, I don't know, or this seems impossible. Because like that might
be something you would say in a more normal setting. But like when the teacher has presented you
with this challenge, you assume, first of all, that there is an answer. And that it is an answer
you can deduce, because the teacher has given you this challenge, right? It's like, here is an
exercise for the student, please figure it out. So they were like, guessing and trying to, well,
that's the thing they were guessing, as opposed to trying to figure it out, which is why
this is so closely linked to guessing the teacher's password, which is the next post. But
but so like, I felt like it was a little unfair, but it really, he makes a damn good point about
about how much guessing there was being done and how schools are being, you know what, I'm going
to stop right there before before I spoil the next one. Go ahead, Steven.
Oh, sorry, I was just going to say that if like, to be pedantic, you know, the teacher in the real
world could be could be nature. And in this particular case, there was an answer and they
could have guessed it. They could have said, okay, I feel like I was asked the wrong question. Now,
granted, that's not how things work in school. They usually ask you questions with straightforward
answers based on what you've learned. I don't know if this actually this might be like, is this
an apocryphal story or does it have a citation? It doesn't actually matter, but it was once upon
a time, dude. So once upon a time, like it so it could be the sort of thing I try to think of a
of an example like that could have come up in any formal education I had since I didn't take
high level physics courses. It's it seems like a good way to get like to train the student to say
yes, sometimes things are confusing. And it is okay to say I don't know. Yeah, right? Yeah, I think
that's the exact point that Elias is trying to make is that, like, I was actually going to
basically say what both of you had said. Any as you're talking about how you don't think it's fair
to the student. And I agree because you are not like that's not the way schools work. You're not
actually being asked to think you're being asked to like memorize stuff for the test.
Not always, but just like, there's so much. What is the word accountability? I guess that teachers
are held to that they don't have a lot of time to develop good curricula and they spend all their
time, you know, attending meetings, grading tests, and then like having to be evaluated
forever. And like teaching it like they're evaluated on like passing scores of their students
to test so they didn't get to write more often than not, right? So the state or the district
writes these tests. And it's like, okay, well, I feel like this is the worst way and worst order in
which to teach college algebra. But that's the way I was told to do it. So good luck, kids. I got
that. Sorry, what? Oh, I got to say that this is a this mythical teacher is a darn good teacher,
though, because he is probably for the first time in these students lives exposing them to the idea
that like, hey, you shouldn't just be trying to figure out the correct answer for that test. Maybe
you should actually think about things like your teacher's a dick and flipped it before you came in
here. Or your teachers trying to make you think, which might be a dick move. Some of my teachers
were trying to make me think it was I had some pretty decent teachers, not all of them, but a few.
Yeah, I had a real mix of good and bad ones. So Eliezer says that to consider the answer
the student gave of maybe because of heat conduction, he says, I ask, is this answer a
proper belief? Do the words actually control anticipation? If if you say heat conduction,
what experience does that lead you to anticipate? Under normal circumstances, it leads you to
anticipate that if you put your hand on the side of the plate near the radiator, that side will
feel warmer than the opposite side. So he points out that that you in terms of that phrase, you
should ponder the little innocent phrase because of which comes before heat conduction, ponder some
of the other things we could put after it. We could say, for example, because of flogiston or
because of magic. Because of heat conduction is used in such fashion, it's like saying magic.
It feels like an explanation, but it's not. It's big explanations. Yeah.
And I like that a lot. I think it's a really succinct and awesome and super memorable lesson.
Like I've never forgotten this parable since the first time I read it. Yeah. I've not only not
never forgotten it, but I catch myself doing this and I try to stop and be aware of the fact
that like, it's like, wait a minute. I actually don't assign very high confidence to that thing I
just said. Do I actually know this or did I just hear this somewhere? And like, it's just
kind of been accepted because I heard it from maybe an authority figure or it was a maybe it was a
scientific journal, but maybe it was a shitty one. You know,
yeah, I have a similar thing like that with my autobiographical memory. And so,
like when I think I remember something, I like will immediately be like, you know what, I don't know
how strongly I remember that. And even if I did remember it strongly, it doesn't mean it really
happened. And I think because of that accidentally like ingrained thought pattern, a lot of my
actual memories get thrown into the junk bucket in my brain. And thus my autobiographical memory
is terrible. Eh, I thought I missed anything important. I'm sure it was important to remember
it. The less tired you are to your specific memories, the less you need them to be intact when
you're unfrozen. Right. And also, I said that last one with a nod and a wink, but no one could hear
that. So. Yeah, we need to like start being like, I don't know, describing our facial expressions
and stuff. Wink, wink, that's a joke. Exactly. Brace eyebrow. Magic you cry. That's not a scientific
explanation. Indeed, the phrase is because of heat conduction and because magic are readily
recognized as belonging to different literary genres. Heat conduction is something that Spock
might say on Star Trek, whereas magic would be said by Giles and Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
However, as Bayseans, we take no notice of literary genres. It's really funny because I think a lot
of methods of rationality was Harry kind of pattern matching everything to fantasy novels
that he had read. Yeah, absolutely. Especially the explicitly in a lot of cases. Yeah, well,
I mean, the arc that we just started, the Azkaban arc, he explicitly thinks of it in the beginning
as like, okay, I am finally getting my intro quest from my wise mentor, and soon I will be,
you know, harrowed and have this experience, but it will make me stronger for the future and I can
finally step into my destiny. Yeah, he literally thinks of it in terms of like leveling up. Yeah.
And and completing this narrative arc that all heroes have to complete. I think I remember a
scene where he received something and he's like, aha, my first quest item. Oh, God, I remember
when Dumbledore gave him the father's rock, and he tried to leave and the door was locked and Dumbledore
was like, you didn't take your father's rock. He's like, oh, yeah, of course, you can't leave
the area without taking the quest item. Yeah, that's what I was going to mention is that, oh,
yeah, if you foolish me to think the door would open before I put the quest items in my inventory.
I feel like the bag of holding was a great little literary trick to like,
let him, you know, play into that perfect fantasy of his where it's like, yep, this is my inventory,
everything in this bag and my pockets. I want one so bad. Yeah. I just want hammer space to be real.
Hammer space. It's a TV tropes thing, you know, like in cartoons where a character will pull a
very large hammer out of their pocket. Okay. It's just nonsensically big. Yeah. Did you see
into the spider verse? Yeah, I was actually just thinking about scene. Yeah. Inuyash, have you seen
it? Yeah, it's wonderful. Yeah, it's gonna say if you haven't, it's treat. At the end, John Malini,
the pig, gives him his hammer. That was John Blaney. Yeah. And so he's like, here, take this hammer
and it's like huge. It's like, it could fit in your pocket. And he said it was carrying because
like they were all leaving. It was perfect. All right, on to guessing the teacher's password.
Yes. Yeah, trying to see if there's anything else that we missed. I guess the one thing
from the very end that I would like to point out before we go is that he says the deeper or the
students is not simply that they fail to constrain their anticipation. The deeper error is that they
thought they were doing physics, even though they were simply just moving their magic from
one genre to another. Love it. Yeah. The thing that, go ahead, student. It's gonna say really
quick, I can see how this post flows into the next one. I think that might have been actually how
this worked in reality rather than my initial guess of like, just like kind of separating them
I think often, like he'll make a couple of points in a post and then there'll be a discussion and
he's like, okay, yeah, I can further elaborate on this point. And that's what this next one is.
But what were you gonna say, Jace? I was gonna say, oh, did I just forget it? Oh, no, that's on me.
Oh, right. I think at least you could imagine that this somewhat corrects itself later on when
you say like, graduate from physics school and start working in a physics lab.
And now you have to care about what reality is or isn't doing.
Yeah, but like, almost every student in high school went through a physics class,
where they had to repeat these words and a minuscule fraction of them will actually go to a physics
lab. So most people learn the wrong lesson. What's the wrong lesson that they could learn?
The wrong lesson is that the thing that you do is not try to constrain anticipation.
