because no one knew which ontology to use.
And so everyone wanted to invent their own ontology,
otherwise they wouldn't get paid.
That was an important factor.
And that was a big mistake.
That meant that the ontology became a dirty word.
It was forbidden in the Air Force to use the word ontology for several years.
They have relaxed that in it, because we did get it to work.
So these are some examples of ontologies that were built.
And each one was built on different principles
without comparing what was already there,
without looking at neighbouring domains to see whether there were ontologies
and how they might work with your ontology.
So this is the problem I'm addressing here.
So I believe that I, along with some of my collaborators,
were the first people to solve this problem.
So we had the first non-brittle, sustainable, expandable approach to ontology,
a methodology which grew out of the human genome project.
So still the most successful ontology in history is something called the gene ontology.
The purpose of the gene ontology was to link all of the new omics data,
so gene array data, protein data, with clinical data about diseases
and about physiology and so forth, across all organisms.
Because many experiments are carried out on non-human organisms,
and so you get data from non-human organisms about the relationship
between, for instance, muscle development, but it's muscle development in mice.
And you want to use the experiments on mice to draw conclusions about muscle development in genes,
based on the fact that the genes in the mouse for muscle development
are almost the same as the genes in humans for muscle development.
The gene ontology made that kind of work possible.
They linked together mouse people with human people.
The data from the mice would be able to be used by people working on humans.
Now, the gene ontology only deals with a rather narrow set of kinds of data,
but life sciences are tremendous.
So the gene ontology doesn't have terms for disease, for instance.
And so we created something called the open biomedical ontologies,
which is a collection of modules, ontology modules,
all of which were built to be interoperable with the existing ontologies in the OVO library,
specifically with the gene ontology.
And so now we have a disease ontology, an anatomy ontology, a protein ontology,
and so forth, you see some of these in a minute.
Now, the basic formal ontology, which is where I come into the picture,
was the reverse-engineered top-level ontology, the capstone or the architecture of all of these modules.
So I worked it out, more or less, what they had in common,
what were the general terms which they all used, or which they all should be using.
And I put those together and created what is called basic formal ontology.
All right, so this is the approach.
You don't build your ontology all by yourself in your little room.
You build your ontology by working with people who've already built ontologies,
and you fill in the gaps.
The gap today is ground systems, so we should manage by 4.30.
Now, the way BFO works and the way this methodology works
is that we always provide the space within the system where we know that there are gaps.
So we build the ontologies now, but we build them in such a way that we...
So we build the space ontologies leaving gaps for the ground system ontology
so that we don't have to re-engineer what we've already done
when we start moving into these new areas.
And BFO starts with very general types, objects, for instance, attributes and so on,
but then gradually we move downwards by defining more specific types.
So a sensor is an object, for instance, and an X-center is a kind of sensor,
so we now have a hierarchy.
This is a hierarchy of ontologies, and each ontology is a hierarchy of terms.
The whole collection of trees is a single coherent modular structure.
And it uses the same principles, which means that once you've learned how to do this in one area,
you can apply what you've learned to other areas.
You can also find mistakes that people have made in other areas
because you're working on the same principle.
All right, this is a small picture of the over foundry.
It's a carbon spoke structure, so BFO is at the top.
We have some mid-level ontologies, and then we have all of the various different biological
and medical ontologies that were created.
There are many more now, this is an old picture of the over foundry.
Now anyone who wants to ask a question should feel free, just interrupt, yes?
How do you know that a gap should exist?
Well, you don't always anticipate old gaps,
but for instance, let's suppose that you're interested in insects,
and you've got money to work on spiders.
So you'll put insect, and then you put spider, and then you do all your work.
But all the other insects will go, they'd be siblings of spider.
So that's one very easy way of doing it.
I guess we do have a pretty good strategy for creating the points
where new ontologies can be added, yes?
But that works, I mean there's spiders and things,
there's already a taxonomy of animals and animals, and already terminology is accepted.
How do you know when you're working with somebody and finding it
that they're talking about the same thing you're talking about?
Yes, so this is a multi-threaded issue that you're raising here.
Let's suppose that we have a particular area in ground systems.
So what is your favorite area in ground systems?
Just to give an example, what do you think is a problem case?
Telemetry.
Okay, so that's a good problem case because I don't really know what to say about it.
That's fine, never stopped me before.
So telemetry is going somehow to be part of measurement I take, the process of measurement.
Now we have processes, we have measurement results,
we have measurement result generating processes, we already know where to put them.
Now telemetry is going to be more than that because it's a group activity,
lots of people engage in telemetry.
Now that means that telemetry is going to have to be,
it's going to have to have terms under multiple different headings.
There isn't just going to be one term.
Am I making sense?
Now there is actually a place for telemetry which is going to be,
it's going to be I think a sibling of things like testing, maintenance, no?
So telemetry, probably if you've done the space things,
you already have telemetry because they're sending them down and then the grounds and students get it.
Okay, good.
So then let's go back, but all I'm trying to do now is to show you the kinds of headings that we search for.
And we claim that BFO, although it's very small and very general,
is so general that there will always be a birth in BFO for any kind of data that you might have.
And so this is a challenge.
If you think you have data which does not fit anywhere under BFO,
and what that means more carefully is if you think you have data about entities,
things in the world, processes, attributes, information that doesn't fit into BFO,
then we want to hear about it because then we have to fix BFO.
But so far we've done quite well, I think.
All right, so I'll continue.
So the OBO Foundry was a collaboration between many organizations engaged in bioinformatics, medical informatics,
and who recognized the need for a nontology system,
which would enable people working on molecules, chromosomes, and so on,
to interact with people working on death and sex and hunger and so forth.
And this was found to be very useful for drug companies and for medical research,
and so that particular effort was and still is being funded very well.
And this is just the demonstration that we have here as a sustainable approach
to solving the ontology problem.
All right, and that's just a picture of the Harbin spokes, just a different view.
Now, BFO itself is very small, it's strictly formal.
There's no domain-specific term in BFO.
All terms in BFO apply in principle to all domains.
It evolves but very slowly, so we've had basically four versions over some 15 years.
It has a very large user base and we have a very, in fact, I'll pass this around.
So this is the BFO book.
It's the only book ever published with the word ontology in the title twice.
And then we have more than 300 ontologies using BFO, many of them in biomedicine,
but now increasingly more in industry and in military intelligence kinds of areas.
And we'll talk about some of those very soon.
So this is the book, which is about to appear in Chinese.
And this is the history since BFO.
So in 2010, as a result of an IAPA challenge grant,
the Common Core ontologies were created by Kubrick.
And then in 2015, we started creating the Common Core space ontologies.
And the Common Core is like the Oboe Foundry.
It's a modular, sweet hub and spokes architecture of ontologies descending from BFO
and from a set of mid-level ontologies in the Common Core.
And then the most important fact is this.
So next month, the ISO standard version of BFO will be published.
It's already been approved.
And it will be ISO 21838-2 to be precise.
Dash 1 is the ISO standard for being a top-level ontology
and Dash 2 is the ISO standard to show that BFO meets Part 1 requirements.
This is a picture of the Common Core ontology ecosystem.
So the mid-level ontologies are here.
There are many domain ontologies.
And some of these are space ontologies.
I'm not sure if this has a point to it.
So this is the outer space ontology.
This is the spacecraft mission, space object ontology and so on.
There's a sensor ontology.
There are many more.
These are just ones that are perhaps of interest to people in this room.
And we're going to see a lot more of these as time goes by.
And this is the ISO standard.
That's Part 2, basic formal ontology.
And as I say, it will be published next month.
It should be sooner or later in the public domain,
which means you don't have to pay for it.
Because BFO existed before it was standardized,
so ISO can't charge people to...
This is a picture of BFO which you can't read, unfortunately,
but it's designed to show you that it's small.
So we have here different kinds of things.
Here we have different kinds of attributes.
Here we have different kinds of processes.
And then down here we have different kinds of spatial and temporal regions.
So that's basically it.
We have objects, attributes, processes.
And actually we also have information entities.
Where are they?
I should know where they are.
Here.
There.
Generically dependent continuance.
It's a really ugly term, but it's...
If it's ugly, people won't steal it.
All right, we'll come back to information entities later on.
So the basic dichotomy is between things which continue to exist,
such as planets and people,
and things which occur, such as orbitings around planets
and launchings and so forth.
So that's the basic dichotomy.
Everything in the universe we claim
falls under one or other of these two headings.
And if you really insist, and you think you have a counter example,
I will be willing to entertain it.
So the moon is a continuance.
A moon landing isn't a current.
There are two kinds of continuance.
There are independent continuance,
which are things which just exist all by themselves.
And then there are specifically dependent continuance,
which are continuance which require other continuance to exist.
