I care whether it's flying at my special.
Somebody else might care desperately what it's made of.
So that's a tricky thing.
So we are slicing the world in part on the basis of what is useful.
But we try only to slice where there are distinctions
on the side of the world that we're slicing.
There's so many ways to slice.
Since we're giving definitions, then we are open about where we're slicing.
I think the first one covers the rock.
When the rock's on the moon, it's part of it.
So you're fine.
But if it's away from it, then that's a separate distinction.
And according to the sources that we were encouraged to use,
the rule is 100 kilometers above the surface.
At least for the Earth orbiting objects.
All right.
So now we have an axiom that every space object is an object in BFO
and it participates in some space flight.
So a satellite on the launch pad is not a space object.
Once a satellite collides with the Earth, it's not a space object anymore.
And a moon walker is not a space object.
This is what we see.
And our astronomical body is a natural resident space object
that is a single cohesive structure bound together by gravity
and or electromagnetism.
And this is sometimes called a celestial body.
And I'm not going to be able to read all of the...
I'm certainly not going to read that.
This is the full elucidation of space objects in the ontology.
So how...
Do they have some associated way they plan to use that particular set of definitions?
Yes, so...
There's a big hulk of thing that says space objects on the ground that fell.
Yeah. And we don't say that they're wrong.
We just say that we're developing this ontology.
We have to make certain choices.
And we make those choices honestly with definitions.
We make them clear.
And then we create this structure.
Now, the structure covers everything you want.
We have a place for rocks on the moon.
We have a place for spacecraft on the launch pad.
So that we don't call them space objects.
All right.
These are terms that people use.
A space debris object, that's pretty obvious.
Although it's not actually quite so obvious once you dig into the weeds.
So debris includes both rocks.
And also defunct spacecraft.
Or bits of defunct spacecraft.
So we had to define cut-offs.
We tried not to be arbitrary.
We tried to find out what were the acknowledged cut-offs in the standard literature.
This is more about debris.
Orbital debris is any man-made object in orbit about the Earth.
And now this is what the ontology looks like once you get going along these lines.
So we have object which comes from BFO.
Then we have space object, which is a child of object.
And then we have primary body, resident space object, space debris object.
And then we have collections of objects, a fraction spacecraft, and so forth.
And this is just the same thing, but you can read this now more easily.
But I'm not going to give you time to read it.
All right.
Now we move to the space event ontology.
And so orbit is used, it's an ambiguous term.
It's used in different ways, quite naturally.
And this is what we're trying to resolve.
We're trying to find one definition of orbit, and we have to choose.
We have to put our money down on one particular choice.
So these are the four standard ways in which the word orbit is used.
And we choose to define it in this way.
It's a process in BFO terms of orbiting around a primary body, and we defined primary body earlier.
And then we can define other terms, orbital path, orbital revolution, and orbital regime,
in terms of the original term orbit.
And that space event ontology.
And these are some more definitions connected with orbits.
So we need to distinguish between, for instance, a spinning motion and an orbiting motion.
We need both of those.
So a revolving motion and a spinning motion on two different kinds of motion.
Orbital path, orbital revolution, we have definitions for those.
And then we define outer space.
We define region of outer space.
So outer space is the maximal region of outer space.
A region of outer space is a part of outer space that is also a region.
And then an orbital regime is a region of outer space defined on the basis of altitude.
So that means low earth orbit and so forth.
And now we can classify orbits in different ways.
So low earth orbit is classified according to altitude.
Another classification would be according to the primary body around which the orbit orbits.
And we can also classify orbits according to other things like orbital period and so forth.
And the ontology allows us to classify along all of these different dimensions.
But it chooses one standard taxonomical hierarchy and then defines the others in terms of that standard.
Just because our principles don't allow us to have multiple hierarchies for the same entities within the ontology.
And this is what it looks like.
This is what you get when you use protege.
It will output a page like this, which includes axioms,
holding of the term, definitions of the term, comments and so forth.
All right.
Now, for probably obvious reasons, focusing primarily on geocentric orbit.
So we have lots of terms for geocentric orbits classified under those different headings.
And we have more than 70 kinds of orbit represented in the ontology.
And it looks like that.
So we have geocentric orbit.
Everything from there onwards are geocentric orbits.
And we have Kepler orbits, which are somewhat special.
So this is just part of what you just saw, but bigger.
And if you have questions, then feel free.
About the specific orbit with Kepler and elements and the ethic.
Yes?
So that would be an instance of...
No, no.
That's a very good question.
So everything in the ontology is types.
If you have an instance, that means you have a specific time, a specific space region,
and probably a specific object, spacecraft, piece of debris or primary body in mind.
And then it would be an instance of one or other of these classes.
Or it could be an instance of one or more of these classes, in the kind of case you just mentioned.
So just because you are very, very precisely defined doesn't mean you're an instance,
because there could still be many instances which share all the characteristics in your definition.
So an instance can be an instance of multiple types?
Yes, yes.
So we try to avoid that, but the way orbits work, it's very hard to avoid it, cleanly.
But you're right, that we really should work very hard to have a single hierarchy,
so that an instance, if it's an instance of two types in the hierarchy,
then one of those is a subtype of the other.
And then you'll say...
And then how do you do with defining...
Say orbits, you can define it in different ways, whether it's the Cartesian...
Oh, we deal with that.
Okay.
We'll come back to that.
Yes?
One question.
I think that's a very interesting point.
So you're looking for something that's completely tree-structured in the sense of one-to-one relationships.
Yeah.
The reasons for that are multiple, and the simplest one is that if you allow multiple inheritance hierarchies,
people make one mistake.
The second reason is that our strategy for defining terms rests upon every term having at most one parent.
And if you have terms of two parents, some people define it in one way,
other people define it in another way,
and then you'll end up with the forking that created the silos that we were trying to avoid at the beginning.
All right.
So this is all of the eccentricity-close audit types that we have in our ontology.
And now we'll get to flights.
So flights of processes in VFO, they're motions, which are a special kind of process.
And subtypes of flights are things like atmospheric entry, atmospheric flight,
space flight is a subtype of flight, and then intergalactic space flight is a subtype of space flight, and so on.
And a flight, this is, again, just a definitional choice, is always complete.
And so this is just the distinction between spinning and orbiting again.
And, of course, orbits may involve spinning, but an orbit and a spinning are two different motions.
And then the space event ontology definition of flight looks like this,
and I don't think I'm going to go through it, but you get the idea.
And these are subtypes of motion within the ontology, and most of them are orbits.
So revolving motion and then orbits.
And these are, we've been through this, these are just the subtypes of orbit.
And our mission objective, this is just a very small fraction of the different kinds of mission objective
that we have space object, recovery mission objective, space object, rendezvous mission objective, and so forth.
Spacecraft docking mission objective, space-based research mission objective, and so on.
You get the idea.
And now maneuvers, these are kinds of maneuvers, error-breaking error, capture, de-orbit maneuver.
And this is just a longer list.
And extra-vehicular activity, so that's also in the space event ontology.
Yes?
So with all these things, I'm harking back to days gone by, many, many relationships versus one-to-many relationships,
relational data-based structures.
What appears to be as a method to deal with one-to-many relationships.
So you identify derivative features.
I'll say yes, just to hear what you say next.
Well, I guess I'm waiting here with those two.
I'm following.
As I see all of these definitions, I'm starting with things that we want to do with it.
Thinking about fuzzy logic around computer algorithms.
We will give you some examples of queries.
So there is something called the Sparkle query language, which is designed to work with ontology tagged data.
I'll show you how the framework we have for tagging the data.
And then David will show you some examples of queries.
I'll give you a couple, he'll give you more, and he can go through some queries with you.
That is the main way of describing how the ontology is used.
Now, I believe that there are many more ways in which the ontologies are used,
but that is the easiest way to illustrate the value I believe.
Am I going the wrong way?
Yeah, wrong way.
Okay.
Yeah, so one thing of those things is you walk in a space activity.
So let's say you send humans to Mars, and all of a sudden you have a new category of Martian space activity.
Do we now need to expand the ontology to include that, or is there, you know, just not included?
Actually, I would think that we would.
Yes, I would think that we would.
So would it not make more sense to just have like a generic, you know, astronomical body, expert vehicular space activity?
Yes.
So this is a very small branch of the ontology.
I'm sure that we can do better.
But this is another example of the utility question.
So we're not going to worry too much about this branch until we have people who are doing moonwalk-like things with other kinds of objects.
But you're right.
We probably, this will need to be done a little bit more carefully.
And how does that all work with things like just going hiking, you know, where you have to take everything with you?
You mean on the moon?
No.
