They're dependent upon them.
Like height, weight, color, and so forth,
are specifically dependent continuance.
Qualities are specifically dependent on them.
And we divide everything into types and instances.
The ontology is only interested in the types,
but you and I are all instances.
And so we are interested in instances.
We carry out experiments on instances.
We perform observations of instances.
But when we publish or when we collect data,
then we're interested in types.
So the ontology links up with the instances through the types.
So tell star four or one is a type.
So is it a current?
So tell star is a continuance,
and the launch of tell star is a current?
No, I mean height.
Height is a continuance.
You have your height from the beginning
to the end of your existence.
It changes its value as you grow bigger,
but it's still your height.
Your height attribute.
Exactly. It's dependent on you.
Exactly.
All right.
So the diameter of the moon is an example.
We call those things attributes.
And then we have processes in temporal regions,
which are the two main kinds of currents.
And we also have spatial regions,
which are a kind of continuum,
because space goes on where time flows.
And again, we have instances and types of everything.
So qualities are things like height, weight, and so on.
We also have another kind of specifically dependent
continuum, which are called realisables.
And an example would be a disposition.
My disposition to go bald, for instance, is a realizable.
It's a disposition.
And another kind of realizable is a role,
such as being a lawyer, or being a professor,
or being an astronaut.
So dispositions are realisables,
which have their realisables,
realizations because of the way they are physically.
Roles are realisables which have their realizations
because of the way things are socially,
roughly speaking.
So these are internally grounded,
and these are externally grounded.
They're grounded in paperwork.
And so the role of being a lawyer is realized
in an act of lawyering, which is a process.
So all realisables have realizations,
which are processes.
This is not rocket science.
I'm going to get to rocket science, I promise.
But this is not rocket science.
All right, but now one special kind of disposition
is a function.
And functions are realized in functionings.
What is special about functions is that
you build the thing which has the disposition
because you want to realize the function.
The function is the raison d'être
of the bearer of the disposition.
All right?
That applies to functions, biological functions.
The reason why I have a heart is because
my ancestors needed a way of pumping energy through the body,
transporting energy through the body.
So they created a pump.
That's a simplification.
That's why it's the function of my heart to pump.
It's not the function of my heart to thump.
But it is the function of my heart that it thumps.
That's a disposition.
Sorry, it is a disposition of my heart that it thumps.
It makes a noise in other words.
All right, and now between functions and dispositions
we have capabilities.
Capabilities are things which we're interested in,
which we have an interest in being realized.
So they're not just generic dispositions,
like going bald.
They are dispositions that we want to have
in the thing that we're creating.
So my car has the capability to drive in the rain.
But it's function to drive in the rain.
And a spaceship, of course, has thousands of capabilities,
but it has one or most very few functions.
All right, so these are some examples of functions,
capabilities, and these are capabilities of an artifact,
a heater, and these are capabilities of a biological organ,
namely the heart.
You should all have the slides,
so I don't need to pause.
Yeah?
So, is it really part of BFO?
No, capability is not part of BFO
because it depends upon something which is domain-specific,
namely organisms with interests.
And that's why it's in yellow.
But it fits neatly between functions and dispositions.
So this is hot off the press.
All right, now, so we have qualities and we have realisables,
and these are specifically dependent.
My tendency to go bald is mine.
It's specifically dependent upon me.
But now we have generically dependent continuance,
which are like specifically dependent continuance.
They're like qualities, but they can migrate
from one bearer to another.
And a good example is a PDF file.
A PDF file can be copied exactly.
The very same entity can exist
on indefinitely many hard drives.
And the same applies to chromosome structures.
They can be copied exactly.
And so, he's getting really excited.
So information content entities
are one important kind of generically dependent continuum.
And that fits into BFO.
Generically dependent continuum is the birth in BFO,
but these kinds of things.
And it goes there.
And now we come to space,
and we start to do rocket science.
Always wanted to do rocket science.
You will very soon realize I do not know anything about rocket science.
We've seen this before.
These are the space ontologies,
or to be more precise,
the common core ontology space domain ontologies, SDO.
And there are five space domain ontologies,
which are listed here.
The space domain ontologies work with various other ontologies,
for instance, a weather ontology and so forth,
which are also part of this same ecosystem.
Now, there are other examples of such ontology suites.
So the common core is quite an important one,
and it's used by several important institutions.
We are working on something similar for the intelligence community.
Well, there are some other examples here, you can see.
The industrial ontologies boundary is one of the examples
that I'm working on quite specifically at the moment.
And all of these have BFO as their hub,
and they have the same hub and spokes structure.
This is the industrial ontologies boundary.
These are some examples of the ontologies
which have been built for the industrial ontologies boundary.
So this is a maintenance ontology.
This is an ontology about interoperability
of domain models in engineering.
This is about simulations in engineering.
And there are a number of working groups.
There are something like 20 publications now since 2019
coming out of this IOF activity,
which overlaps with the space activity.
These are the ontologies that we either already have
or are building in the context of this
industrial ontologies boundary work.
Now, I've said a little bit about the common core,
so I don't think I need to repeat this.
So the original IARCA project was a project
to produce very rapid analysis of intelligence data
where you did not know the day before
you had to provide answers to queries
what the data would be about.
And so the common core ontologies
were built to be about maximally everything.
But now, as we move down,
we have to be more precise in building ontologies
for things which are of special interest,
particularly in the domain space.
And so we are, in a way,
trying to capture everything in a very precise sense.
So it's something like a digital twin that we're trying to do.
And you'll see what I mean when we start talking about
specific things in the space ontology area.
And now the best practice I already described,
so we start at the top with BFO
and then we work downwards by defining various things.
And because we have the same pattern everywhere,
it's easy to import new ontology content
or to create new ontology content.
There are several groups, some of them quite important,
who are not just using the common core,
but actually helping to populate more branches of the common core.
So we have the top level, we have various middle level,
and then we have the domain level ontologies content,
some of which are in the public domain,
some of which are provided by specific communities
for their own purposes.
And we try and make sure that people know
about those other ontologies,
but we're not allowed to make them available.
And this is how the space ontologies work
