You mean on Earth?
Yeah, we're not worrying too much about those kinds of issues.
One day, I guess, we will have to worry.
I mean, they have very similar issues that you might be talking about.
Yes, yes.
So this is the limit problem of ontology.
So should we include physics in the space object ontology?
Because everything that we're talking about involves physics.
No, we are hoping that someone else would take care of physics and then we'll negotiate in the areas of overlap.
Now, there are already tourism ontologies.
We deal with things like hiking.
They're not very good, but they exist.
Now, one day, we will probably need to have better tourism ontologies.
And then we will, probably by then, we'll also have Mars tourism.
And then we'll need to work out how to deal with things in the area of overlap.
All right.
So artifacts.
There are many artifacts dealt with in the spacecraft ontology, including spacecraft parts.
And we deal with a lot of different kinds of spacecraft parts.
So there are heating and cooling parts.
There are spacecraft systems, which are parts of spacecraft.
This is an ontology of systems.
And this is an ontology or a branch in slightly bigger type of spacecraft subsystems
so that you can see the kind of detail that we have for subsystems.
Propulsion systems.
That's a longer list of propulsion systems.
Transducers.
So we have all of these transducers.
And this was our task to create an ontology which had this amount of detail for the parts of spacecraft.
And we have a definition of sensor, which is a kind of transducer.
And this will illustrate how the definitions work.
So in the ontology, every term has one parent.
And the definition tells you what's special about those instances of that parent,
which makes them instances of the child.
In this case, the child is sensor.
The parent is transducer.
And the rest of the definition tells you what it is about.
What's special about those transducers, which are sensors.
And that method for defining terms was invented by Aristotle.
So this is the one piece of philosophy you're getting today.
So Aristotle defined a man as an animal which is rational.
And so that's because a man is a kind of animal.
And the difference between men and humans, let's say.
There's in humans and other animals, according to Aristotle, is that humans are rational.
All right.
Now, then we have an ontology of sensors.
And these are all the sensors in the Hubble telescope.
These are the kinds of sensors that we distinguish.
Then we have sensor systems.
And now we're going to look at the International Space Station.
Anyway, then you can look at it.
We have spacecraft module, which is different from a spacecraft part,
because the spacecraft module can act as a spacecraft in its own right.
And these are the spacecraft modules in the International Space Station.
Along with other things.
I don't think the radiator is a spacecraft module, although you never know.
These are spacecraft subsystems.
And now I talked earlier about functions.
So functions are special kinds of dispositions.
They are the reason why the entity with the disposition was created.
So these are different kinds of artifact functions,
which are relevant to the space domain ontologies.
So the heating artifact function, the spacecraft docking artifact function,
signal processing artifact function, and so on.
Any of these functions, if they were to fail, how does that disrupt the ontology?
If they were to fail.
Yes.
So that's one of the very interesting questions.
So part of the reason for going into this great detail about functions
and capabilities and parts is maintenance.
And to some degree, also design of spacecraft.
And so we have to think about what it is that will happen if one or other
functional artifacts fail.
And that would be another part of the event ontology.
Now, whether we're going to create a spacecraft failure event ontology
is at the moment an open question.
But in the biology case, we had an analogous question.
We have the human anatomy ontology, which is very, very large and very, very granular.
We do not have the human patho anatomy, which would be an explosively larger collection
because there are so many ways in which human anatomy can go wrong.
And similarly with event failure events, I believe.
So we're going to have to work out how to deal with the classification failure
events without combinatorial explosion.
All right.
Now we have spatial and temporal regions, such as ground tracks, for instance.
And for this, we need the definition of a reference system,
which is a kind of information entity.
And the reference system describes the standards for organizing
and understanding data of a specific type.
And there are spatial and temporal reference systems.
And these are the kinds of spatial and temporal reference system
that we included in the ontology.
And we define them here, what they are, and then we give examples.
These are just the most relevant ones.
And then we have different kinds of spatial regions in the ontology.
So if we have all of those many different kinds of orbits,
then we're almost certainly going to have many different kinds of orbital regimes,
tracks, paths, points, apsees, and so forth.
I guess you know more than I do about these.
Maybe I have a bigger version.
Yes.
So these are the...
Do you say apsees?
Is that the plural of apse?
It's the first time in my life I ever pronounced that word, so...
So these are subtypes of spatial region.
Subtypes of one-dimensional spatial region, indeed.
And these are subtypes of two-dimensional region in the ontology.
And then zero-dimensional spatial region.
And here are three-dimensional spatial regions.
Circumstellar habitable zone, for instance.
And these are temporal regions that we have.
So multi-week temporal interval, round trip delay time,
synodic rotation period, and so on.
And this is just the same list, but shorter and bigger.
And altitudes are going to be part of the spatial region family.
Temporal regions are...
I'll list it here in bigger letters.
And then we have agents and organizations.
So the crew, government agency, commercial organization.
These terms, properly speaking, should not be in the space domain ontology
because they're a much more general term.
But they're listed here because we need it to have a spacecraft crew.
All right, now let's see some of the ways in which these things are used.
So a communication satellite is a kind of satellite, which is a kind of spacecraft.
And this spacecraft had to be designed.
And the design is what we call a spacecraft artifact model.
It has as part the function specification for that spacecraft.
And that function specification prescribes a certain function,
which has a certain spacecraft part as its bearer.
And this is an artifact resident space object.
But now we have a problem because it isn't.
Because there was a time when it was on the ground.
Now this is the role issue again.
So a space object is not a proper term for a continuum.
Any more than lawyer is a proper term for a continuum.
There aren't people on the one hand and lawyers on the other hand.
There are just people.
It's just that some of those people are lawyers for certain times in their lives.
Now similarly, there aren't space objects.
And I don't know.
These artifacts that look like rockets, some of them.
The space object is a space object only when it's in space.
And that is an issue that we need to pay attention to.
Because we don't want to say things about space objects,
which do not hold because the space object was once on the ground.
And may one day be again on the ground.
So is that a current issue that is still being resolved?
No, we've resolved it.
It's something we had to pay careful attention to.
And then the space object has a space object ID and a satellite catalog number.
It participates in the space flight, which is a kind of orbit.
And it has an orbital path, which has a certain inclination
and a certain eccentricity.
So we can capture all the data about the spacecraft using these kinds of terms.
But then we have the relations between them.
So we can do reasoning.
We can work out what the artifact model was that was used in the design of this spacecraft, for instance.
And what the function specification was.
And what it is that breaks when this particular spacecraft part no longer function.
And then we can work out how these things relate to various different kinds of maneuvers
and mission plans and objectives and so forth.
This is the GOES-16 mission expressed using the ontology.
And I can't read it.
I'm very close to the screen.
But this you can read.
And now this is not representations of types anymore.
This is representations of instances.
So these are specific events which take place or will take place.
And they instantiate types in the ontology.
And they stand in the same relations or their instance analogs of the relations in the ontology.
Relations like has part, has agent, participates in.
So one of the, I said that these were the goals, supporting space situational awareness
in doing things like supporting dynamically updated RDF triple store databases.
So these are two line element data.
And we can imagine that the element, the two line element data are down here.
And we have a database.
And each of the column heads here is going to be tagged with an ontology term.
Once you've tagged them with an ontology term, they then become linked together by the relations
to all the other ontology terms which are of relevance.
And this tagging, there is software which supports this kind of tagging
so that it's not just a manual exercise.
There is some automation involved.
And you still can't read it.
So I don't know what to say about that.
Or I guess this is connecting data about the spacecraft with data about what the spacecraft
was doing in relation to mapping things on the ground.
And again, you can't read it.
But we can use the ontology to link together not just two line element data about the spacecraft
but also external data about the things that it's using its sensors to map and so forth.
This you might be able to read.
See, basically it's sort of dealt with telemetry but I'm not mentioning it.
See, some things are easier than they seem.
All right, modeling instances.
So this again is an instance representation of a single satellite, the Telstar 401.
These are all the parts, or anyway, many of the parts.
Along with some qualities, some models, some functions.
And so these are artifact functions.
The C-band transponder has the function of C-band wireless communication relay and so forth.
And then this is the Telstar 401 orbit and mission.
