within the common core hierarchy.
So there's BFO, and then we have the mid-level ones,
time, space, currency, information, relations,
units of measure, and so on.
And then we have these domain level ontologies,
military operations, military intelligence.
These are related because we have a space mission ontology here,
which uses some of the ontology content here.
And then we have a cyber ontology,
and the space domain is going to be interested in cyber.
We have an atmospheric feature ontology,
which is going to be related to the atmospheric weather ontology.
And then the ontologies that we have,
the five which I mentioned already are here.
So this is the area within the domain ontology space
of the common core ecosystem.
And this is the same thing, but bigger.
Are there any questions?
So we're in a telemetry bit.
Telemetry, I don't think it's on this slide,
but it's certainly going to use units of measure.
So I guess if it has to go anywhere,
it will be the activity of generating measurement results.
And that would be an event which takes place in space,
and then there'll be another event of sending the data down to Earth,
and then there'll be another event on the ground
where the telemetry data is analyzed.
Is that right?
It doesn't seem to me.
So a space event would be the place I would put it
if I was restricted to here,
but I think that you've pointed to another domain
which probably needs an ontology of its own.
The domain would be something like a space management activity ontology,
or space management ontology, space activity management ontology.
I know, but the data involves collection, transmission,
and analysis, and all of that has to be...
Maybe management is not the right word. David?
I just want to speak to this.
So I think the first thing we need to do is disambiguate.
I mean, it's been shared by discussion.
So we would disambiguate the telemetry platform, if you will,
from the telemetry data, which is what you're interested in,
from the monitoring processes, right,
the telemetry processes, the various individual issues.
The first thing we do is we pull those apart
and refer to experts to try and make sure we're referring to the right things.
And then we figure out where each of those goes into the broader ontology.
Into the broader ontology suite.
And actually, now that you mention it,
if you're really interested in the data, then it's going to go here,
here, and then down here.
So that's the data.
But you're not interested in data of a very general sort.
You're interested in a quite specific kind of data,
namely data relating to space events, primarily, I would imagine.
Well, you'd have telemetry would be...
You'd have one ontology, I think, to define what the telemetry is.
That is, here you have a specific point that says,
here's the temperature of your solar array,
but then the data itself would be time-based.
So you'll have a telemetry for every single second.
Which is why I think it's going to be associated with space events.
Let's move back here.
It is, just like you were explaining about height before,
the telemetry changes the processes that you were talking about,
the creation of telemetry, downloading, and processing.
Those are all processes associated with a particular object.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
So the data is separate from the process, right?
Absolutely, yes.
So this is why we have the information entity ontology
and a different ontology from the object, the space object ontology,
the spacecraft ontology.
So I imagine telemetry is actually a spacecraft-related activity,
more than it's debris-related, for instance.
But we can come back to this when we work out the ground system ontology,
because I think that some of the issues with the telemetry
have to do with what goes on on the ground, also.
Yes?
How do you decide how granular to make the ontologies?
User need, on the one hand,
and available funding, on the other hand.
So user need is probably important.
So we're not doing this for fun.
We're doing it because there is a need,
and that's what determines how deep we go.
We go quite deep, although we don't go as deep as we could go,
as you will see.
And we don't go deep for everything,
because there are many different satellites,
many different satellite types.
And we did some satellites in great detail.
All right, now, so these are the five space domain ontologies.
You have 850 or so terms in total,
but then you have to add hundreds and hundreds of other terms,
which are sometimes used in the definitions of these terms,
taken from the other common core ontology.
So first, in order for these ontologies to do their work
in helping computational analysis,
there are not just labels, they also have definitions.
And these definitions are in two forms.
First of all, we have a textual definition,
which is to ensure that people know what the terms mean,
and to ensure that data are reliably tagged
using the ontology terms.
And that's usually primarily human,
or at least human-guided, the activity of tagging.
And I'll come back and show you how that works later on.
But then also, we have a logical definition.
And OWL is one way of providing logical definitions for terms.
And it's a logical definition which allows the computer
to reason with the ontology.
All right, so the primary goal of the space domain ontology work
is to support space situational awareness.
These are some of the things which it supports.
Now, one day we'll also support telemetry,
but it doesn't yet, I think.
But it does support all of these things.
So these are all areas where the space domain ontologies
are being applied, yes?
I would argue that like, telemetry is not a space only thing.
Right, telemetry is a kind of community
about some sense, a couple of sensory processes.
But this illustrates precisely the point.
We would not build a space telemetry ontology.
We would build a telemetry ontology,
and then we would go into the weeds for space telemetry.
And the result would then be very well-tailored
to fit with the other space domain ontology.
And then we would have birds for all the other kinds of telemetry.
Because actually there's a good point that you would have,
I mean, any monitoring system deals with telemetry.
Yeah, and we have a sensor ontology, which is here.
And I imagine that there's going to be a close partnership
between having sensors and having telemetry.
All right, so now let's start.
The first of our space domain ontologies.
And we published a paper in 2016.
We'll be shortly publishing another much longer paper
covering the domain that I'm going to be talking about today.
But you can already read this paper.
And so it's space object, what is a space object?
Well, roughly it's an object that is located in outer space.
We say roughly, because it's actually not...
Supposing a piece of debris lands on Earth,
is it still a space object?
So we have to be somewhat more precise.
Is an astronaut inside a spacecraft space object?
No, why not?
It's located in outer space.
So the way we make it more precise
is that it's not inside another object, first of all,
or attached to another object.
And it's not near or low on an astronomical body.
So rocks on the Moon are not space objects.
And then we have that apparently this is regarded
as being the appropriate threshold for being in outer space.
But actually...
I mean, a rock would be a space object.
It would sit on the Moon because it could come loose.
Ah, but it's a space object, only if it does come loose, right?
No, it would be a space object anyway, because it's on the Moon.
You have to talk to the author of this definition.
So this would be... Can you make a note of this?
The question of Moon rocks?
So is the Moon a space object?
Yes.
So Alex says that if it's...
Well, actually, no, perhaps he's safe.
No, he's not safe because it's located on the surface
of an astronomical body.
If it's located on the surface of an astronomical body
according to Alex, it's not a space object.
Yeah, I would argue that what we're really doing here
is trying to figure out what's a useful paradigm.
If we call human space objects because they're in space,
then everything becomes in space.
And we lose the whole value of the definition.
I think what they're trying to do is say,
here's a value, a definition, it's a value.
It's a particular value.
But anyway, it's not always easy, particularly.
So we'll see there are more problems, even with the term.
Like a Moon rock, actually, would power be useful
as a definition of a space object.
Well, but people come to museums
and they say, here is a space object and they show a rock.
Again, I think it depends on what you're trying
to use the ontology for.
It's a general question I have, which I'm slowly teasing out.
There's so many different ways to view the universe, right?
Especially for a philosopher.
How do we decide how to slice and dissect these ontologies?
And I think the answer is, in ways that are useful.
So me, as an engineer, I'm looking,
so what's going to be useful for me?
And we can slice up and say, it's a dirt object.
So this object or that object.
I don't really care what it's made of.
