Our final, not our final program for the week, but our final panel for the week is up next.
And we're going to be talking about the environmental impacts.
We're going to be talking about how to mitigate those environmental impacts.
And one familiar face is folks joining me on the stage here, Daniel Schmockenberger,
whom we all heard from yesterday, Joey Owl from the Cherokee Nation, and they're going
to introduce themselves and Nate Higgins.
Welcome to the stage for Asheville Ideas Fest, gentlemen.
All right, welcome, everybody, good to see you.
This panel is on the relationship between human civilization and the biosphere and what
we need to know about it.
We're going to try to address the totality of that topic in 45 minutes.
I am going to serve as moderator.
I spoke on other things yesterday, and both of these gentlemen have so much valuable things
to share.
My name is Daniel.
I'm with Civilization Research Initiative.
We actually just recently moved to the area and are meeting people, and it's been a delight
to start meeting people here.
And I'm really honored to just get to meet Joey for the first time, and I'm looking forward
to meeting more since we are here on lands that were attended by the people that were
here for 13,000 years previously.
And Joey Owl serves as the Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources for the Eastern Band
of Cherokee Indians here, which is a super important perspective.
He's going to be speaking.
And then we also have Nate Hagins, who flew in for this from Wisconsin.
And Nate is someone I know very well, a friend, colleague, and he's going to speak first.
Nate's background is both in global finance and in environmental science, specifically
planetary boundaries, kind of the biophysical, geophysical limits of the planet, and very
heavily in the relationship between the energy systems and the financial system, and probably
of all the environmental issues that everybody in here is aware of from deforestation and
overfishing and pollution issues.
Climate change is the one that gets the most attention.
Climate change is obviously related heavily to our energy systems.
And it might be that climate change is actually not the most important feature of the environmental
consequence of our energy systems.
And I think that will be where Nate gets us started today.
You want to try in 10 minutes to summarize the relationship between finance, energy,
and the ecosystem.
Thank you.
Thank you all for being here.
Yeah, I've actually spent 20 years assembling this story because we live as part of a system.
And a lot of the experts on TV are experts in one thing, like chemistry or nuclear engineering
or apartment development.
But we live as part of a system, and the parts and the processes do fit together.
The human ecosystem is that we combine energy and materials with technology for everything
in our world.
We develop products.
We measure their value by dollars or euros.
And we do this all in a growing system to give us the same neurotransmitters of our ancestors
and the whole thing produces waste.
One of the core things that I've discovered, and I have a master's from the University
of Chicago in finance, they never mentioned the word energy once.
And our culture is energy blind in what energy does for our current lifestyles and for our
future expectations in three core ways.
First of all, energy is the currency of life, and it also enables human aspirations and
human lifestyles.
Every single good in the world that contributes to GDP needs energy to invent, to extract,
to manufacture, to deliver, to maintain, to run, to repair, and to dispose of.
The correlation between energy and GDP, which is the size of our economy, or GWP, which
is the size of the global economy, is 0.99.
If we're going to grow our economy, we need to have energy.
But what we're living off of the majority is ancient carbon in the form of coal, oil,
and natural gas.
One barrel of oil, which it costs $70, does the same amount of work as me or any other
anyone in this room working for five years.
So the average, the human economy now, every year we use 100 billion barrel of oil equivalents
of coal, oil, and natural gas.
If you do the math of that, we have the labor equivalent of 500 billion human workers helping
the 5 billion or so real human workers.
And so we are blind to this reality of how energy underpins our society.
We just look at technology and money.
The second reason we're blind is we're treating this as if it were interest, as if it were
repeatable every year.
And during our lifetimes, it has been.
For the last 130 years, with the exception of COVID, with the exception of the great
financial crisis 2009, a couple years in the 1970s and the Great Depression, we have had
more and more access to energy every single year as the United States and as a global
culture.
But we have used all the good stuff.
The only region in the world that's growing oil production right now is the Permian Basin,
the only shale basin left that's growing.
So right now, if the United States stopped drilling, our oil production would drop 40%
in the first year, another 25% the year after.
We have to run faster and faster just to stay in place.
We've used all the good stuff.
Yes, technology has helped, but what technology has done is built a bigger straw.
And the straw still is sucking out hydrocarbons, but we're that much closer to the slurping
sound.
So the second part of energy blindness is we are treating this depleting resource as
if it were forever.
And we are all alive during the carbon pulse, which is the 200-year, 300-year timeframe
where humans are drawing down this ancient carbon bank account to support our economies.
The third area that we're energy blind on is that we don't understand energy fungibility
or energy properties.
Let's just build this solar panel to replace all this oil.
And solar, wind, geothermal, these are all very mature, great technologies, but they're
not going to replace the energy-dense liquid at room temperatures, transportable oil that
powers the world economy.
There are differences between kinetic and potential energy.
Kinetic is there's electrons that are moving and you have to use them when they're available.
Potential energy is it's stored.
You can store it until you want to burn it or turn it on.
So there's a quality difference.
Now how does this all fit into the economic system and the environment?
Humans today, living in our culture, we self-organize as families, as small businesses, as corporations,
as nation-states to maximize profits.
That is our cultural goal.
And those profits are 99% tethered to energy, which is 84% tethered to carbon energy.
So the pollution ends up being two types.
One is we have created a metabolic structure as a global human society.
There are no billionaires or secret cabal of sinister humans or politicians that are
in control of this.
We create money effectively out of thin air.
When money is created in a bank, it is not lent from existing capital, it's lent into
existence with reference to underlying trees, dolphins, oil, copper.
The same amount of those things existed before the money was created.
So what ends up happening is we have this imperative to grow because when money is created,
the interest is not created.
So the entire global system has to grow.
And so the two environmental impacts are, number one, there's a metabolism that is squeezing
out the rest of nature.
You all are aware of the impacts of climate change, 90% of the heat has gone into the
ocean, but there are other impacts as well.
Since I was born in the late 1960s, we've lost 70% of the populations on earth of insects,
animals, amphibians, and fish, and birds.
What a horrible thing to say in such a sacred, natural setting as Asheville.
The United States doing much better than the rest of the world.
So the two impacts on the environment are the metabolism, which can't easily change
if we just swap out solar panels.
We're going to have to change our aspirations.
What does it mean to be successful as a culture, as a species?
We're going to have to change our price signals because we're basically paying just the cost
of extraction, not the value of this stuff that is indistinguishable from magic on human
time scales for what it does for us.
The average American consumes in our body around 2,500 calories a day, but we consume
a hundred times that in our metabolic footprint of the lights and the air travel and the hospitals
and the NASCAR and all that stuff.
So we don't need all that energy to be happy or healthy, but we're on this like treadmill
where we're comparing ourselves to others by the pecuniary metrics of our time.
So this system ultimately to be more sustainable, we have to look at how can we get our evolutionary
neurotransmitters of dopamine and serotonin and oxytocin and all the rest by using less
energy and materials.
And that's the challenge.
And I think we are the first generation of 300,000 years of our species to be able to
understand how we got here, what we're doing, who we are, what we really need, and what
the natural resource balance sheet is.
So maybe that was a 10-minute summary of a much larger story.
Thank you.
You actually did that in like eight, which was amazing.
I have more.
We'll get there.
So I will just say the topic of peak oil, which was partially true and partially immature
topic has matured a lot in the kind of geobiophysics domain and Nate played a massive role in the
maturation of that.
You can see a project that he used to run called the oil drum that really advanced the
whole understanding of hydrocarbon energy and new energy systems.
He has a podcast now called The Great Simplification, where he brings on people that have expertise
in all of the kind of environmental and related domains.
And I will say, because we live in a time where it's so hard to tell what is true because
people think the exact opposite about almost everything, the claims that he's making
about the energy system, its relationship with the environment, finance the unsustainability
and what has to change are extremely well vetted across the people who disagree the most.
So go on there and check it out, The Great Simplification.
And since a lot of it is very deep, he did make some amazing animations to start where
you can get a good overview.
So thank you, Nate.
And we have 12 hours of recording with Daniel and I, if you're interested.
So now Nate's talking about fundamentally a human civilization system, mostly post-industrial
revolution that is consuming the biosphere upon which it depends in a process of self-terminating.
And one of the things I'm so interested in this conversation about is that Joey works
with and is from a group of people that had a sustainable civilization for a long time
that didn't depend on oil and didn't depend on a lot of aspects of 100 times the extra
somatic calories per day with exponential growth tied to an interest system.
There's a lot of conversation around are there things about indigenous wisdom that created
sustainability over the course of thousands or tens of thousands of years that are relevant
to our modern globalized high-tech world that could teach us how to live more sustainably.
He has a background in sustainable agriculture and earth sciences and I'm really curious
to hear if you're thinking about the, I mean it might even be hard for you to call this
global western thing civilization, but if you're thinking about the thing we call global
civilization and its relationship to the biosphere, what are the things that come to your mind
as some of the most important things for people to think about that they don't think about
clearly?
I appreciate you setting that up because I wanted to hit on something that Nate started
with.
Thank you for the invitation.
It's an honor to be here.
Shio, Nogada, Nole, Deji Adani, Lunga, hello everyone and welcome.
What Nate said was looking at the systems and how everything is interconnected.
When you look at indigenous wisdom and practices, that is what our ancestors practiced and understood
was that whether you're looking at animals, human interaction, plants, ocean, air, all
the environment and biosphere, it was all interconnected and influenced one another.
With colonization and Europeans discovering America in the 1400s, we immediately started
to adopt some of those practices of western implications to our culture and our systems
that started to degrade over the years, but we took metal tools and began to make new
materials into different baskets that we didn't have the ability to.
For example, we could break river cane down with natural materials, but we needed metal
to make white oak baskets.
When you look at, and I'm just a young person from Cherokee and I'm 34 years old and I'm
still learning a lot about what our indigenous culture and our ancestors and that knowledge
that they had because the government set out to assimilate indigenous cultures and they've
