Yes, it is one side of the entertainment that I can enjoy.
My wife watches as well.
My wife is a nurse and not into the physics.
He is a very annoying personality.
If you didn't know this, it is probably worthwhile just saying out loud.
I mean, the variational free energy was his invention.
So he was trying to...
Well, one reading of the history is that it was his invention.
You could have good arguments with Russian mathematicians
that can get at compression and free energy minimization
from the point of view of algorithmic complexity
via things like soft induction and the like.
And certainly there is a school of thought that really celebrates
that sort of compression view that is described by free energy minimization.
But the Feynman view is much more closer to my academic training and inheritance.
So what he was trying to do was to solve exactly the impossible marginalization problem
that people would try to solve if they wanted to engage in exact base and inference,
exact sense making, the exact statistics to actually get a grip
of the very best explanation of this metaphysical world that of course doesn't exist.
But that is intractable in the same sense that he couldn't possibly integrate
over all the paths of small particles, say an electron would take and quantum electrodynamics.
He couldn't possibly normalize that probability distribution
by integrating over all the universe of paths an electron could take.
So what he did was to dissolve that problem by converting this
inference marginalization integration problem into an optimization problem.
And he did it by creating this band on the quantity he wanted to optimize,
namely the log marginal likelihood, which is the variation of the energy.
So all of the Feynman view principle owes its greatest debt, I think,
one that is not quite fair on health health, so everybody else runs through from can't through to...
And base all the way through.
Yeah, that's sorry people, you couldn't mention.
But anyway, certainly from a technical point of view, that that ethical formulation is so beautiful.
It is leveraged directly, certainly in my personal work and the way that I would normalize the free energy principle.
It's not the only way you can read the free energy principle as due or to James' Maximum Entry principle.
but when read or written in its pathological form, that is really a homage to Feynman's original
conceptions. But as you say, he's such a delightful person to watch as well. And unlike me, he was
a committed smoker. So I like that. Yes, you love your cigars. I know that. I often think about that
video of Feynman, where he's talking about a red flower, I think it was. And he says his friend
his artist friend looks at this, looks at this flower and then tells him,
you as a scientist, you're obviously going to break this down and ruin it. And he's like,
no, no, no, it's actually because I'm a scientist, I'm going to look at the cells beneath the flowers.
I'm going to look at every single flow of each atom. He's going to look at every single aspect
of this flower in so much greater detail that it only increases in its complexity and beauty.
And to him, the flowers fall more beautiful because of this. And that goes back to what
we were talking about earlier. And I think that's something that you guys have in common.
Yeah, and with you apparently with you. It's beautiful because Feynman has that
perfect way of blending the science with the art. And that brings me to this question I wanted to
ask you, when are you going to make or write a book? Because your work is so complex, to a point
where most people really don't know how to approach it when it comes to whether it's a neuroscientist,
psychologist, physicist. If they don't understand the work, they're going to find it very difficult.
Have you ever thought of writing a book that is a bit more for the layman out there?
Yeah, no, I'm notoriously bad at writing accessible those of a kind, I think would be
required for for a book. And so I'm probably not going to what I've found tends to work best
is to have the next generation of people who are much more fluent, usually either because they're
sort of in a person facing kind of science like psychology or medicine. Or they've had a philosophical
training. So I find these these people are much better than I am at articulating in prose in
narrative form, the ideas. So they can write the books. I did try ones. So for the book called
Robert Pryor, Robert Pryor, MIT Press, who has been asking me for at least three decades,
when I go into write the free energy principle book, and he thinks he's got precedence because
his surname is Pryor. So he thinks any book that appeals to me, especially the free energy principle
has to be commissioned by him. And he was absolutely right. But the problem is,
the only stuff I can write is so tortuous. And I have to say that, you know, as with the free
energy principle itself, with its emphasis on complexity minimization, namely, providing a
parsimonious explanation, the free energy principle becomes simpler and simpler, the longer it
baronates, certainly in my head. So I've taken now every year now I write a paper, you know,
describing how a simpler version and a simpler version, that process will go on. At some point,
it may be sufficiently simple to be attractive to Bob Pryor or any other editor who invites me
or asks me the question that you've just been asking. My suspicion is I will probably be
retired or die before that arrives. So, you know, but there are some wonderful
renditions of the free energy pro and con. But certainly, as recently the active inference
book by Thomas Parr and Giovanna Pazzullo, you know, I actually say it there that, you know,
I was allowed to write the four with nothing else.
Yeah, that's okay. I was just about to ask you, what are some of the reading recommendations? I
think that's definitely one. That's on top. That's actually a book that I want to read desperately.
And I cannot wait. If you had to recommend us any other books, what type of books
would you recommend to either increase our knowledge with regards to the free energy
principle or active inference in general, or just books that you find help a scientist,
philosopher in general to grow in this field?
I'm afraid I'm not going to give you a very good answer to that. There's a reason for that.
There are two reasons. One, I don't have time to read books. When you get to my age,
you tend to be, you get asked to write blurb for books. So, I have to speed read certain
chapters of books, but I don't actually have time in my working life to read books. I can only
review papers and scientific proposals. That's even working seven days a week.
Any papers that come to mind? Oh, there are lots of papers. Yeah, but I'm not going to tell you
what they are because the people I don't mention will be very, very upset. So, I'm not very good
at sort of reading books nor recommending books. So, what I'm going to do is what my
father is. So, he sometimes sends me books to read, which he thinks are good for me.
So, I'm just going to mention the last one that I read, literally a couple of weeks ago,
which is Hel-Go-Land by Carlo Rovelli. I really like that. So, that would, I would certainly
recommend that. And I think that had Carlo written that last year, as opposed to, I think,
2014, there would have been more emphasis because the Fraynish-Britjewel is just that,
you know, that viewpoint, I think articulated slightly more in a classical setting, in particular
the pathogen formulation of Richard Feynman. So, I really enjoyed that. But otherwise,
if people are generally interested, there are lots of wonderful papers usually by philosophers,
usually by, again, people like Andy Clark, Jacob Howe, and Maxwell Rammstead,
when he's wearing his philosophy hat. But there are also lots of really wonderful others.
But you can just go to a repository. So, Baron Rovelli has got a nice repository and GitHub
of his favourite FEP papers. There's something called the Active Imprints Institute, run by
Daniel Freedman, that is dedicated to trying to organise the material in a didactic or
pedagogical way. They're actually writing now, I think, another Active Imprints book,
which is an explainer for Thomas's and Giovanni's Active Imprints book. So, if you're interested,
I think you go to the people who actually know how to teach and articulate these ideas.
It's funny because one of the last people, well, this was actually a year ago now that I think about
it, who talks about hierarchical Bayesian brains and active inference. It was Lisa Feldman.
And one of the books, yes, exactly. And the book she recommended was Halkeland. And this was
just when the book came out. So, it's funny that you both basically talk around the same
topic and recommend the same book. So, it clearly is an impactful book in general.
Well, she's also written some very influential stuff in the emotional sphere. And there's now
quite a key player in the Active Imprints, certainly the emotional inference and
intercepted inference field, along with Anil Seth and Colin.
Just a close-up call. Any theories of consciousness, the brain, that you feel
sort of go against the free energy principle? Anything that you know stands out that Cantor
argues this principle in a way that does sort of get you, get your shield up?
No, I'm afraid not. I think that probably reflects the fact that I don't have a philosophical
training. So, I don't, you know, I'm not used to adversarial progression, adversarial argumentative
approaches. Now, I don't, you know, the whole point of the free energy principle is it has to
explain everything or it explains nothing. So, if there is a viable theory of consciousness out
there, there has to be some way of, if you like, reframing it or substantiating that right theory
by naturalizing it using the free energy principle. Remember, free energy principle can never be
wrong. So, it doesn't need to defend itself. It's just a method or a tool, very much like
Hamilton's principle of least reflection. Inherently, unfaultifiable.
Yeah. Yeah. And I think just I'd like to say thank you so much for all your work. I
clearly supported in the fact that I quoted you a couple of times, referenced you numerous times.
So, to me, it is replicable. It is work that a lot of us are using out there. So, from my side,
I just want to say thank you so much, Col. It's a pleasure. It's an absolute honor to actually
chat to you. And I really enjoyed this conversation. Well, so am I. You've asked some really
excellent questions. You've kept me on my toes, but also kept me smiling. Thank you very much.
