I've been reading your work for many years and you are someone who's managed to incorporate
so many different fields together. At this point, your free energy principle can be discussed
in fields of mathematics, physics, biology. It seems you've managed to cross all these
borders and I think it's perfect for this show. One thing I want to start off with is
when you think of the topic of the mind-body problem, you think of Rene Descartes and he
often said, I think therefore I am and you've now become synonymous with I am therefore I think.
I think let's start off with that because I think it's beautifully poetic considering this
podcast is called Mind-Body Solution. Yes, I do like that homage to Descartes.
So the cheekiness of the reversal is based upon the free energy principle read as a physicist
and effectively this is a description, a principle that will be applied to anything that exists
and the maths tells you that if something exists in a certain sense then it can be read
or interpreted as making inferences. So if you allow me to equate inferring with thinking,
that means to exist is to infer. So if I am therefore I think. So that's the genesis. It's
one of those down that it's strange inversions. Speaking to the slightly sort of deflationary
aspect of the free energy principle, it's a slightly tautological aspect. I think at that
point it would be a perfect opportunity to let's play with definitions. Let's talk about free energy
principle, a Bayesian brain and perhaps active inference. Let's play around with these definitions
before we move to a formalism of the free energy principle. Right, so they're all very closely
related. So defining the free energy principle, first of all, what is it? It's just a principle
of the kind that you would remember at school in physics like Hamilton's principle of least action.
And as such it is effectively a mathematical method. It's a method or a tool that you would apply
to a particular situation. And when applied to things like you and me, or in fact many other
animate things and biotic things, one gets an interpretation of the behavior of such things
in terms of active inference. The inference part is just a statement of sense making and
representation on the inside of the thing, where the thing in question can be a person
or a particle, it could be you or me. And that sense making speaks to making sense,
representing, explaining, inferring the causes of sensory impressions from everything else,
from the outside world. And the best or the most, if you like, inclusive way of understanding
that kind of inference and sense making, when applied to the brain would be the Bayesian brain
hypothesis. So the Bayesian brain hypothesis is the notion that we can understand our sense making
and to a certain extent with one commits to neuronal process theories, the underlying neurophysiology
neuronal dynamics, in terms of Bayesian belief updating, basically changing our physical,
biophysical states by neurodynamics to represent probabilistic beliefs, Bayesian subpersonal
beliefs, probabilistic beliefs about the causes of sensations. So that's inference, inference
loosely described under the Bayesian brain. Active inference is the simple move that you
acknowledge that the sensations upon which you're basing your inference are actively
sampled. You are in charge of the data that is subtending your inference. And that sort of
closes the loop between you as an inference machine, a statistical organ, or your brain,
at least as a statistical organ, and the world supplying that sensory evidence of those sensations.
And that story, that sort of closing the loop, an action perception kind of cycle,
a description of sentient behavior, appealing to the notions of active sensing and active learning
is one way of reading what comes out of the Fienta principle. So that's in my mind how
those things, how you triangulate amongst those three notions.
When we think about, I mean, obviously, as you said, they're all very linked. When you think
about the free energy principle, the formalism of it, do you think of energy minus entropy? And
then you obviously go into different aspects, surprise, divergence, then you discuss obviously
your internal states, hidden states, action perception, talk to us about how this formula
actually works. And how you, because a lot of people have noticed when they question you about
this theory, everyone comes from a specific field. So someone often tends to attack you from a
psychological perspective. Someone tends to talk to you from a biological perspective. How do you
navigate all these territories? And I think with that, I'd like to say that you, one of the few
people that I've noticed, who seems to be a genuine polymath in that regard, because you're always
able to answer these questions succinctly with a lot of definitions. And just beautifully, how do
you manage to do this? I have a lot of naughty and inquisitive students, so you get used to
answering questions after a while. Again, very gracious of you to say that. But it's not,
I don't think it's my wisdom. I think that ability to jump from different disciplines or just take
different perspective or views on what is probably the most important thing to all of us, which is
how do we work and why are we here? And is the gift of things like the free energy principle,
and the free energy principle, I'm not claiming that the free energy principle is just the current
formulation of millennia of thinking and physics and psychology and philosophy,
and probably nearly every other field, including behaviorism, economics and the like. So the whole
point of the free energy principle is that it is there to try and unify and to try and encompass
and thereby endorse all the various perspectives you could take upon scented behavior or choice,
the imperatives and write our decisions right through where do I look next in the next few
hundred milliseconds through to which school should I send my children to? And so the eclectic
aspect that is brought to the table by the free energy principle is just due to its fundamental
nature. It's a first principle account. And by definition, if it is a first principle account,
if it is applicable, then it should be applicable widely to various phenomena read or looked at
through the lens of an economist or a psychologist or a physicist or a philosopher. It's interesting
you say, oh, I talk about things like surprise information theory and entropy and intrinsic value.
You didn't actually say that, but I do talk about that. The whole charm of having a first
principle account that is sufficiently simple to write down mathematically is that you can see
that the same mathematical quantities mean different things to different people,
but they're all the same thing. So perhaps you're just to give you a couple of examples of them.
Underneath all of this is just basically a description of the states that I exist in,
those states that are characteristic of me. So how would I express that mathematically?
Well, I could just write down a function of any particular state that reflected how
characteristic it was of me. And that would be most commonly written down as a log probability
of me being in this state. Now, any log probability is basically a potential.
And if it's a potential, you can now read it in by analogy to thermodynamics.
That log probability of being in a particular state via me can also be read as a statistician,
and you can call that model evidence or in statistics marginal likelihood. If your information
theory would be called self-information, and the average of self-information is entropy.
If you were an economist, it would basically be the states that I aspire to. It would be description
of my attracting set, written as if you were a theorist dealing with vandal dynamical systems.
So now this same quantity now becomes an expression of utility or value. If you were
ET James, you would call it a constraint on the imperative to maximize the entropy,
and so on and so forth. So the key thing is that everybody's talking about exactly the same thing.
It's just that they've got different words from it. So the joy of sort of seeing that
central quantity under the hood being able to make sense to lots of different people
just is an expression of the explanatory scope of this kind of first principles account.
So everybody's right. They've just been using different words.
I think you're absolutely right. I think when people try to develop any theory or hypothesis,
it's always very important to sort of realize that we don't exist in a vacuum. There's so
many different fields of study that are studying the same things, but just defining them differently
discussing them very differently. But they all come together at some point and any good
theory needs to be able to explain these various expertise as well. There needs to be some sort
of a full explanatory version of all of these and there shouldn't be a gap and you manage to
bring these all together. When you talk about hierarchal Bayesian inference, it plays a very
central role in your work. And I remember when I was reading about this and doing computational
psychiatry as part of the blocks during my masters, I remember coming across your work and
thinking, this is so beautiful. This is the way you've managed to sort of incorporate this into
psychopathology is even more intriguing. Because I remember the first time I read about it and you
spoke about posterior and priors and the way it will dictate how someone experiences hallucinations,
delusions, and just general differences in their field of vision, etc. How did that come to you?
At what point did you manage to realize that this theory has a very active role to play in mental
health? Well, the answer is another strange inversion, I'm afraid. I started as a psychiatrist
and what used to be called a sort of mathematical psychologist or what I wanted to be a mathematical
psychologist. I think a clinical version of that is exactly as you say, a computational
psychiatrist. That phrase introduced by my friends, Reed Montague and Peter Diane,
has only been around for about half a decade. But now we're all computational psychiatrists.
So as a young man, I aspire to be a computational psychiatrist. So the free energy principle is
the denouement of that formalization. But I think it's a really important point you bring to the
table there. And I think there are two moves you have to make to appreciate the potential
applicability of things like the Bayesian brain of the free energy principle to the suffering
of patients that you might see in the health patients. The first move is to have a physics
of beliefs, a physics of inference, a physics of sense making, if you like, a physics of basic
sentence that is inactive. So it has to be sentient behavior. So it's all about choices
and decisions and how I move and indeed, how I control my autonomic reflexes, you know,
respond to my gut feelings and exert some sub personal control over my physiology and internal
learning. So that's the first thing that you have to have. You have to have a physics of
sentence. You have to have a mathematics that connects the foundations of our dynamics in a
physical world to the world of beliefs and inference and sense making and representation
in this inactive sense. So that's the first thing. Then once you've done that, you can then say, well,
okay, under what circumstances or what would it look like if this inference
went awry, was in some sense not fit for purpose with a particular world or eco niche or environment
or direct interpersonal relationship that this person was having to infer and to learn and to
actively navigate to deploy or active inference, for example. And then you get, I think, to
computational psychiatry. But that does depend upon committing to a view of all psychopathology
as intrinsically some kind of false inference. But it's a very natural view that if you just
think about hallucinations and delusions, for example, I mean, what are they? They are effectively
inferring something is there when it's not. So if you were a statistician, you'd say, oh,
yes, that's a type one error. That's just bad inference because you've got something wrong
with your standard error. But of course, you know that the standard error corresponds to the precision
in, say, predicted coding variants and the Bayesian brain hypothesis, which itself then
relates to synaptic gain and neuromodulation and the action of certain drugs. Similarly,
all neglect syndromes or in the old days would have been called dissociative or hysterical
syndromes. You know, again, read as false inference would simply mean I'm inferring
something is not there when it is. It's a type two error. And if you think about all the different
disorders and ways of suffering that people present within psychiatry and indeed quite a
lot of neurology as well, they can all be cast as some kind of false inference, you know,
dysmorpho-phobias, say, anorexia nervosa having false inferences about my body.
And even simple things like parking not simple, but awful things, but simple in the sense that they're
more motor and neurologically oriented conditions like Parkinson's disease, you could think of a
failure to infer and to realize my inferred intentions that I am now about to move. So
you would make two moves. First of all, we've linked physics to belief updating and inference.
And then we've taken psychiatry as instances of a kind of aberrance or a kind of failure
of the inference and belief updating process. But I repeat, put it in an inactive context.
So you couldn't explain Parkinson's disease unless you talked about
aning as inference, you know, treating movement and an active engagement with the world as the
realization of inferred plans, things that I am likely to do next in this moment or indeed
again, choosing which school to send my children to.
I still remember there was one specific line that I quoted from one of your papers. I can't
remember the name of the paper, but you actually spoke about that phenomenon way. Someone who's
acutely psychotic, schizophrenic, when you look at these patients and you show them visual illusions,
you're able, they're able for some reason to see the reality of the situation, whereas we fall for
this trick. So in those cases, people often say that they're seeing the real reality, the vertical
truth, and we're not. Talk to me about this phenomenon, because I think it's quite intriguing
that they don't fall for it, but you, with the free energy principle, with your theory, you're
able to explain this with the brain as well. Yeah, no, it's a fascinating area. So there are
rare instances where psychopathology or any pathology can actually improve certain performance.
Of course, one has to qualify what one means by improved performance, but the particular example
you're talking about, I think is absolutely fascinating. And it's a resistance,
characteristically shown with certain people, either people on the spectrum or people with
schizophrenia or schizo-type approaches to life, that renders them uniquely resistant to the kind
of illusions that we all experience. And it's just worth noting, well, what's an illusion?
Well, it's a false inference, but why is it false? It's perfectly good from the point of
view of the person having the inference and having the presumed percept and qualitative experience.
However, the experimenter, the naughty experimenter who's deliberately crafted this stimulus
in a way which is so unlikely that they can now say, no, no, this is a false percept because
I know how it was caused. And the subject, I, for example, have completely the wrong idea,
the wrong inference about how it was caused. So it is a wonderful tool for people in psychophysics
to actually test how our inferences can fail in relation to the actual causes of our sensations.
But to put that another way around, what it does, it's a beautiful pro
of the prior beliefs that we bring to the table. So that, you know, going back to the notion of
the Bayesian brain, read simply, that means that we have at hand a number of hypotheses
that can explain the causes of this pattern of sensory, for example, visual information.
And we generate these hypotheses actively, say predictions in predictive coding,
and then we look at the adequacy of these predictions in explaining the sensory data.
So we're effectively little scientists. We are testing hypotheses against sensory data.
And if they're not good hypotheses, we will reject them and revise our hypotheses. And this is the
Bayesian belief updating that we were referring to previously. But that adjudication and that
updating rests upon your prior beliefs before you see some sensory data,
relative to the precision of those data that are going to move your prior beliefs to making
it to posterior beliefs after seeing the data. So we come back again to this notion,
and a key notion of the precision afforded your prior beliefs, the way that you think the world
works, or the way that these particular sensory, panther sensory stimulation are generated,
relative to the evidence at hand through that you're accessing through your sensations.
So when people, well, certainly when people like me and you talk about this resistance to illusions
in people separate from schizophrenia, what we are effectively saying is that they
have less precise or imprecise prior beliefs that they're more sensitive to any sensory evidence
at hand. So if illusions are the things that reveal our prior beliefs, and people with schizophrenia
are resistant to illusions, that means they don't have very precise prior beliefs. And that tells
you an enormous amount about the message passing the dynamics and the sense making in people who
are resistant to illusions, particularly in relation to how we think the brain encodes
that precision, because you have to estimate the precision, it doesn't come for free.
It's very much like a statistician computing the standard error, which is the inverse or the
component of precision, it has to be evaluated. And if you get that wrong, you can produce your
type one, your type two errors, all that false inference and the rights and these nations and
delusions. And in this instance, a resistance to a particular kind of, not a pseudo hallucination,
