out behind the world of this system and of course the first thing that I think we need to
um and recognize where the further is that is that another is not part of itself you know
the free energy which shall enslave to being right in the sense and um you know
has to
so I think
you know
So I think that's quite the notion of just having blood in the blood of others, in a
clear way.
It's a really central aspect of having a model of pregnancy, building estimations and illusions
about women and the world, and what behind your model of pregnancy, when you're looking
well, that's what it means like you and your mother.
So I would, I know that, you know, and I think that's how she's going to do that, which I'm going to introduce now.
There are a lot of my colleagues who have done this, you know, and you've got an actual
attention on the side of it.
There's, you know, there's a hundred years on your side, so I think it's certainly
the exercise of the audience of that, and I've also seen a lot of human-human disasters
as you can see, and I'm sure you've heard about it, because certain things tend to be
different, and that's where, between the modern world model of the world, and I think that
is the world model, and it's not just the gender model, it's part of the self-advocacy,
because I have access to every kind of healthcare, including your children.
So I think that's how the space needs to be, and I hope that the world will experience
what it is, and that it's constituted by, I would say, two hundred years and a half.
I think that's a really important point, and I'm sure that, you know, that was in terms of
how it really was, as long as I was a scientist, and I'm not saying you've got conditions,
but I think that's how it's going to work.
So in order to have, you know, in a certain psychology sense, I have to be able to select
myself, so what are the things that I'm going to select from?
Well, under the three-energy principle, that's underactive influence.
Only those things, such as objective models of their country or future, can select from
those counter-factuals each other, and that are under their control.
So for example, just pictures of a family, or only objective models, and then containing
all sorts of things in their plans and policies, and that are in their position,
or in their own way, to select what are available to them, and what they have in mind,
as well as in their world models.
So this is just how the statisticians are at the point of view.
It's just an easy one to select.
But it needs to be applied in the context of selecting these features.
For me, that's a nice use of the word, in the real world.
In the real world, you need an employment, you know, in the real world.
That's an easy one to select.
I mean, don't you suppose it applies to agents?
I mean, it only applies to patients.
That's an objective model of their future.
So in order to survive this virus, in order to make some thermostat, I mean,
it would apply to a bicker.
So that would be one melody.
There are other ways of using this in the basic level, in terms of terms of devices.
I think what's more interesting, obviously, in terms of agency and self-governing,
I think that brings me to something I wanted to ask you from the very beginning.
With the free energy principle in mind, what do you call is the meaning or purpose of life?
Well, as a physicist, that doesn't really have too much of a question, has no meaning.
So from the point of view of physicists observing a universe that was comprised of things,
all of the free energy principle is saying is that if this universe is settling onto an attracting set,
and if they are all like attractors, then it must be the case that it is, on average,
maximizing the geobing on things, attracting the characteristic states.
It's just like rolling to the bottom of a hole. That's it.
What way of reading that rolling to the bottom of a hole, that convergence to the attractive set
is in terms of a minimization of thermodynamic free energy.
The special claim that's brought to the table by the free energy principle is the assertion of a Markov blanket.
Now, you can read the minimization of thermodynamic free energy in terms of a minimization of certain beliefs,
infants, where the beliefs are held by internal states, but they are about external states.
So this is the point, and I phrase it like that, because of your purpose on the media.
So the free energy principle gives you what people like Ramster-Custom,
Maxwell-Ramster-Core, amazing mechanics, which is exactly the same as physical mechanics,
exactly the same as physical mechanics, exactly the same as quantum mechanics.
The only difference is that you've got a Markov blanket in a partition inside the outside.
So in this and only this situation, when you talk about beliefs having a meaning about something else,
there is no something else unless you have a Markov blanket.
You can't get the input information in statistical mechanics.
It's just the probability of being in a state, whereas in the free energy principle, it actually requires beating now.
So this particular physical state has a meaning in the nation in every sense.
It is explaining its hypothesis about it is a model of this external state about something else,
this illusion of what might be out there.
So I think that the meaning of life, if there is life in the sense of there being a Markov blanket,
there is an urgent meaning and that meaning is permanently internal dynamics of life.
And its meaning is established in a relational sense,
in the sense the relation of the internal sense making,
the measurement of your quantum physicist,
of whatever is causing the observations and the sensations that you are using to do your measurement.
So this is a model to our Levy and Lech's quantum information theory, which I'm completely subscribed to.
So that would be one way to do it.
I think a slightly more popular answer to the question would be,
well, what's the meaning in my life where I am one of these junior systems that has this capacity
for agency in the sense that I have very precise dynamics
and that I have the ability to model the consequences of my action
in this very particular case where I can now infer what I am going to do in the future.
There is something called expected reality, it gets it's name.
So you can compute the probability of a particular narrative action trajectory into the future
as basically a very softmax function of the expected free energy.
So the path to the future that has the lowest expected free energy is the most likely path that I will follow.
And it will select very well.
I will select the path that has the lowest expected free energy.
What does that mean in the expected free energy?
In the same way that you can express log evidence as equal to accuracy minus complexity,
you can express the expected free energy as the expected information gain minus the expected cost.
Where the cost is, it supplies the negative self-evidence that stores the characteristic state.
So if you have a very uncharacteristic or dead dissipating,
then that would be very surprising, highly costly.
So you have now got two affordances or imperatives for amps that you will select,
which is what I am reading, the meaning of life to be,
what is my life meaning, what is its purpose, what is my purpose.
Well, it is the imperatives and the libel things I choose to do.
What do I choose to do?
I choose those things that minimise my expected free energy.
What does that mean?
It means I will try to choose those things and maximise the expected information gain
or minimising the expected cost.
The expected information gain is just curiosity.
So the meaning of life for me, assuming that I am avoiding the most costly states of being,
is like, you know, don't put myself in danger of going out very much to trouble with my life,
then the majority of my meaning is the curiosity.
It is basically being a scientist, the energy principle is like a person.
I think that is a beautiful way to put it, Cole.
There are so many things I want to ask you about, but something I often love to ask is,
and I think it is because this gives us an idea of how you were crafted as a thinker
and how you really developed as a thinker over time.
If you had to give us a Mount Rushmore of your favourite philosophers or scientists,
who comes to mind instantly?
Who are these people who really guided your thoughts growing up and made you the man you are today?
Because I am pretty sure when people look at your work today,
when time moves on, we are going to be talking about you, have a feeling,
the same way we talk about some of the greats,
and I think it would be great to know who inspires Carl Friston.
Right.
That was a tricky question to ask that one.
One reason it is tricky is my hero is Sherlock Holmes,
but Sherlock Holmes is not a real person.
He is my hero too. I think that is a great option.
I think the two people, when I read or reference with warm feelings and a tinge of excitement,
especially when I find their quotes, are Helmholtz and Feynman.
Look, the Helmholtz reference, that makes sense.
When you think of unconscious inference and all your work, it makes a lot of sense.
What about these guys really get you going?
Well, very much what probably gets you going about people like Mark Somes and possibly me.
He was a clear polymath.
If you just think about every move you make,
every move I make in my little world in trying to naturalise psychology and psychopathology
and more generally what makes us tick.
You come across some foundational idea or principle or decomposition that he has brought to the table.
You have mentioned the notion of unconscious inference.
That is just basically the Bayesian brain,
as beautifully articulated by Peter Diane and Geoffrey Hinton's Helmholtz machine in the early 90s.
That is certainly one thing, but it does not stop there.
You look at his work in perception generally.
He had all the one aspect of illusionist thinking, at least, down to fine art.
Anything that was worth saying at some point, even if you said it.
More than that, of course, the Helmholtz notion of free energy and the contribution to thermodynamics
is also pretty central to what I am, the kinds of things I talk about.
Interestingly, right down to something called the Helmholtz decomposition,
which I suspect you probably won't know about if you are more interested in computational psychology.
This is an expression of the fundamental theme of, what is it?
The Helmholtz decomposition just means that what you can do is describe any dynamics
in terms of two effectively orthogonal parts.
One part is dissipative and it climbs down the hills, like the ball rolling down the hill.
This is the thing that generates energy.
It is a thing that does basing belief updating in an information theoretical energy principle context.
The other part is called the conservative part, also in a solenoidal flow.
This part, if you like, circulates upon isocontals of potentials or probability distributions.
This can be read in many different ways.
If you are an engineer, it is a decomposition of procedures that you would use to simulate data
or estimate unobservable states to do inference as an engineer using, say, a Kalman filter.
You would have a prediction.
Given my beliefs about states, the prior prediction about what I am going to sample next.
That will be the conservative solenoidal part.
Then you would have your update, which is basically a prediction error weighted by its precision,
which changes my prediction, my prior belief.
That is the, if you like, the dissipative part.
That is my engagement in the world.
That is what takes energy and does the belief updating.
That is written down mathematically, very beautifully, by the Helmholtz decomposition.
What it tells you is that if you have got this, by appeal to the Helmholtz decomposition,
you have got this solenoidal flow, then you are necessarily breaking something called detail balance
of the kind that you see in open systems and non-equilibrium systems.
There is a direct mathematical mapping between the Helmholtz decomposition
and the class of systems that physicists use and study,
which largely in the past few centuries has been sort of systems,
closed systems that are equilibrium.
In this century, it is now all about non-equilibrium systems.
That non-equilibrium aspect is just due to the conservative part of the Helmholtz decomposition.
Also, it is exactly the thing that makes us lifelike.
It is what equips us with life cycles, with bio-rhythms, with oscillations in the brain
at every scale of gammas, oscillations in our favourite hippocampal dendrite
through to our beating heart and respiration, through to our sleep-wake diurnal cycles,
through to our life cycles, through to the orbit of the heavenly bodies.
All of these are not quite a biological aspect.
Certainly for biological systems that break detail balance
and have this particular kind of itinerancy, while still maintaining their integrity
and a free energy principle.
Then you have a description of biotic self-organisation that foregrounds oscillations
and rhythms and arancers returning to the states I was once in,
which of course is part of this sort of keeping of stuff within the characteristic states.
So I got on a little bit there about Helmholtz.
You can see why you are such a fan of Helmholtz.
I mean, it is clear.
You can see the joy in your face when you are talking about this,
and it is very fascinating work as well.
It makes sense why this really gets you going.
And Feynman, what about Feynman really?
Because Feynman, I am a huge fan of Feynman's work.
Sometimes even for fun, I end up watching Feynman lectures just keep me calm at night.
