but a particular kind of illusory person. I think I'm glad we're touching on this,
because this leads me into my next question, which which is surrounding illusionism as a
theory of consciousness. When you think of an illusion as a misinterpretation of a sensory
stimulus that does exist. And you think of the theory of illusionism, Keith Frankish, Daniel
Dennett, Susan Blackmore, lots of people working. And to an extent, when you take into account
certain things that someone like Anil Seth says with perceptions being active hallucinations,
you sort of come to this conclusion that, okay, the sensory stimulus we're receiving
sort of gives us an idea, a posterior belief at some point that we have what is known as a
conscious experience, a phenomenal first person subjective experience. Sorry, I'm going to head
into philosophy at this point and then we'll try to get back into the neuroscience, but and the
physics, etc. So when you think of Dennett and all these philosophers who discuss illusionism as a
theory of conscious, the basic premise is that we are experiencing something. However, because
let's say someone like you or Donald Hoffman who takes fitness payoffs over reality. The fact is
we are never really perceiving what is actually out there. We're just perceiving what is meant to
allow us to survive long enough, perhaps to breed to whatever we have to do. And in this case,
consciousness believing we have some sort of an entity, something similar to an Ian Vitale.
I mean, the fact that we believe this allows us to go through life and successfully reproduce
and continue to thrive. Do you think this has a lot of value? And do you think that these theories
of illusionism as a theory of consciousness has value using your theory of free energy principle
and the Bayesian brain to back it up? Well, in the way that you articulated them, absolutely, yes.
Okay. Do you have any rebuttals against that?
Not whatsoever. No, I think you phrased it in a compelling way and it fits exactly with the view
of a Bayesian brain and more generally the free energy principle. Your controlled hallucination
is just an expression of the way that sensory impressions somehow control our sense making
on the inside and the degree to which we let them control depends upon the precision that we afford
the sensory impressions. By definition, we'll never actually know what's going on on the outside.
So the whole point of inferring is you don't know the answer. You're just left with the best belief,
the best probabilistic guess as to what's going on out there. There will never be any
true access to the causes of that. And in a sort of complementary fashion, I will never know
what you are thinking. I can never know. So I'm on the outside looking at you.
So you're all including the free energy principle, but as applied to your brain, this is just a
hypothesis. It's just a belief. There is a fundamental divide that in the physics application,
the free energy principle rests upon something called a Markov blanket. But there's a fundamental
divide, an informational barrier, or probably beyond information, an existential barrier
between the inside and the outside of any thinking thing, which means that the question
is what is reality? Is there a metaphysics? Is unanswerable? All you can do is, I think in
itself, as inference to the best prediction as opposed to explanation. But inference to the
best explanation is perfectly okay in terms of explaining the world to yourself as you
sample it and as you sense it. So I am not a philosopher, so that's the one area that I am
very naïve in. However, I did want to make a philosophical point here that you use the phrase
that we believe in some aspect of ourselves, including the fact that we believe that we
have experiences. There is an argument that this is just another illusion. It's just another hypothesis
that in fact, selfhood in and of itself is just another hypothesis, that these are sort of illusions
that we bring to the table to make parsimmonious sense of the fact that there appears to be some
coherence in mind-bodied interaction with the world. But it's not a necessary belief for
living and surviving and adapting. I'm sure if viruses could tell you, they would deny
having a sense of self. You might argue that consciousness, either the kind of self-consciousness
that you refer to, or just the notion that I am having a qualitative experience. The kind of
experience that people like Thomas Mixinger would associate with opacity or phenomenal opacity.
These in and of themselves are still just hypotheses. They're just ways of explaining
my sense-making and this instance on the inside, as opposed to explaining what caused my external
sensory states. Does that make sense? But all of this I think is entirely consistent with the
views that you expressed. I think it's, sorry, were you continual? Well, no, you asked for a pushback.
The only pushback I can think of, and again, forgive me if I'm using the wrong words, but
the free energy principle inherits from the theory of sparsely coupled random dynamical systems.
And the special case that emerges when you have a particular kind of sparse coupling between
something and everything else. If that is true, it does have, if you like, a metaphysical commitment
that there has to be something else out there. So there is a sense that you can
be a complete skeptic. There is no reality from the point of view of applying the free energy
principle to my sense-making or indeed applying it to your sense-making, your sentience. But
the free energy principle in and of itself starts from a very metaphysical position that
there is an outside and there is an inside. And what we are looking at is quite simply a
generalized synchronization between the dynamics on the inside and the outside. That can be read
as inference and belief update. That's a pushback I can think of. I think that's exactly where
someone like Daniel Dennett would break away from someone like Donald Hoffman. Exactly what you're
talking about. Where Dennett would suppose that there is a reality, there is an external reality.
However, there's still no such thing as phenomenal experience or conscious experiences because we
are crafting this as we're going along or interpreting it that way. That might not be the
best way to say it anyway. Whereas Donald Hoffman then goes to the assumption that all conscious
experience is the reality we're talking about. And that might take it a bit further because now
there is no external reality. We're sort of creating reality from conscious experience.
But yeah, he takes a different physical route. Just called briefly what I wanted to say was,
I mean, I've got tons of notes here. Just want to show you a lot of different things. I've got a
bunch of equations here. The main goal was because I've seen so many different talks with you and
so many different interviews, I've noticed how people tend to, as I said, ask you questions
based on their expertise or their field of expertise. And I didn't want that to happen because
for the most part, I'm so on board with your view. And I love the theory so much that I used it in
my own master's dissertation to defend illusionism. So I, the dissertation is called psychiatry's
defense for illusionism as a theory of consciousness. And a huge chunk of that actually
incorporated your work, yourself, Chris Frith, many others. But I was worried that when I get
into this interview, I'm going to start defending it even more. And I did not want that to happen.
So I made very specific notes to sidetrack me off that path. But before I do leave that part,
the last thing I do want to say is, if someone does ask you what consciousness is,
how do you actually go about answering that question? Do you find that you go down a
philosophical route? Or do you stick to a neuroscientific slash psychiatric route?
Well, I think very much like you, it would depend upon who I'm talking to and who is listening.
It would be very context sensitive. If you're talking to
people who are in a more physics-y world, and they are interested in the naturalization of
consciousness, I would appeal to this, well, go right back to the Cartesian dualism. How would
you repair that? Or should you repair that? There is actually an argument I've heard recently from
very valued colleagues that there is a neo-Cartesianism that emerges from, specifically,
the free energy principle on the one hand, and quantum information theoretic formulations on the
other hand. This is due to things like the inner screen hypothesis by Chris Fields, which is a
fascinating resurrection of the Cartesian theater of a particular sort. But if I was talking to
somebody who wanted to naturalize in relation to the laws of physics written as usually differential
equations or in quantum information theoretic terms, I would be looking to answer their question in
terms of how do you bridge these two? How do you arrive at some kind of dual aspect monism
that still preserved the duality that explained it? And I would be talking about
the difference between a posterior belief, a Bayesian belief that is encoded by the states of
a brain, for example, and the probability distributions that are entailed by the states
of those brains. So you've got on the one hand an intrinsic information geometry that inherits from
the probability distributions that somebody in thermodynamics, a physicist, would understand
the kind that we use in brain imaging, for example, to look at brain activations through
the expenditure of thermodynamic energy in order to support neural dynamics,
but exactly the same by physical states are those that parameterize another kind of information
geometry, which is the information geometry of beliefs, the space in which I do my belief
updating, moving one belief from this point to this point. And of course, that moment is important
because most of the much of the arguments that I would engage with in terms of consciousness
would frame consciousness as a process. I think you mentioned that explicitly. What does that mean
from the point of view of trying to naturalize a conscious process that was quintessentially
believed basis movement on statistical manifold. So you do get that for free from the free energy
principle. So that's why I and a number of at least close friends and collaborators use the
phrase, you know, a physics of sentience. Sometimes we don't want to be quite so bold.
Sometimes you get told off for using the word sentience. So but at least you can talk about
a physics of information. And it is that sort of link between the information theoretic, the belief,
the statistical aspect of neural dynamics, and the thermodynamics that underwrite that,
which does, I think, provide that link between the, you know, the mensuric, well, you know,
the Cartesian dual aspects of certain things like the brain. If I was talking to people
in philosophy who are more interested in, you know, phenomenology, I think you have to address
some hard questions about, you know, what would be the necessary properties of a
self-organizing, self-evidence free energy minimizing system that could possibly support
qualitative experience or qualia as and then you have to ask other questions about
when would there be some self-awareness of this and, you know, issues of self-modelling of the kind
again, addressed by people like Thomas Metzinga. Those kinds of conversations would take a slightly
different route and would focus on the phenomenology. And interesting, they come back to the precision
we were talking about before. If you remember, we were talking about having to estimate the
precision, which means that you've got, well, for those kinds of systems or creatures or
particles that have the capacity to estimate the precision of their implicit beliefs and
the sensory evidence that is updating those beliefs, that the very act of deploying those
estimates of precision and inferring that precision becomes a kind of mental action.
So now you've got a way of linking mental action, red as people like Jacob Nynowski and Thomas
Metzinga and that kind of philosophizing and with the psychological reading of this mental
action, which is just attention, it's just basically deploying or affording more attention
to this level of representation in a hierarchical context or this sensory stream, thereby selecting
that for belief updating, giving those sources of evidence privilege access to your deeper,
higher level belief updating. So now you're in the world of building bridges between attention,
mental action and phenomenology. Then you start to talk to people who like to think about
selfhood and self-modeling and self-awareness and you start to think about how do these things
unpack in terms of the kind of generative models that are necessary to define model evidence,
margin and likelihood, variational free energy. What kind of models would you need and you normally
get to your very, very deep models, hierarchical models where we normally have in mind a sort of
heterarchy or a centrifugal hierarchy. So your deeper is usually sort of more abstract and slower
and what normally starts to think about what kind of depth would be required
for me to have a sense of self. Well, first of all, I have to be an agent. To be an agent,
I have to have a generative model that entertains the consequences of my action, otherwise I can't
plan. So immediately we're talking about generative models entailed by certain creatures or people
that escapes the moment simply now because I've got a generative model of the future.
Unlike a thermostat or a virus, I've now got a very deep generative model of a particular sort
which goes into the future. It's future pointing, but crucially, it's my future. It's not your
future or anything else, it's just my future. What will happen if I do that? So that makes me
to an agent. So immediately you're talking about a very special class of self-organization,
self-evidencing. And then you have to ask the question, well, at what point do I recognize
that it is me that is actually doing the planning? And why? If you want to apply the
free energy principle, you have to ask the question, well, what licenses this kind of deep
generative modeling? And that's a pressing question because you have used the phrase
self-evidencing. I should just very quickly qualify that, which is a philosophical term,
which I know nothing about in philosophy. But I do know that Jacob Hoey, my friend in Melbourne,
is a philosopher, thinks it's quite apt to use as a description of the Bayesian brain minimizing
its free energy. Because if you remember, the free energy is synonymous with technically a lower
bound on surprise, surprise is self-information, but it's also the negative model evidence or
log-bottle evidence. So as you're doing optimal inference, you are implicitly trying to maximize
the evidence for your models of your nipped world, so you're self-evidencing. So the interesting twist
here is that you can easily show, literally on the back of a matchbox, that the log evidence
is equal to accuracy minus complexity, which means that every move I make and every aspect of my brain
that is engendered during neurodevelopmental need evolution has to pay a price for every more accurate
explanation, illusion that it deploys. And that price is the complexity cost. So it means you're
trying to minimize the complexity. So why in earth would, say, evolution equip you and me with this
really deep generative model, where I've got all this extra complexity that I can be in this state
of mind, on that state of mind, I can be anxious, I can be in that, I can be frightened, I can be
embarrassed. Why would it do that? Well, of course, if it provides a parsimonious explanation
of my sense making and my active engagement with the world, then it pays its way in terms of the
increase in accuracy of the kind of things I can explain and engage with,
pays its way or compensates sufficiently for the increased complexity. And then you ask yourself,
what kind of worlds would potentially justify this kind of modeling, this kind of very
sophisticated hierarchy, deep modeling? And usually one ends up, and now I'm talking to people
in your ethology and social neuroscience, you end up with, well, the only kind of worlds in which
I need to infer I am me and I am in this dispositional state is in a world in which there are lots of
other things that are exactly like me that have certain dispositional, intentional states in
relation to me. Otherwise, I don't need this. It would be an overly complicated model. So you argue
yourself into a situation where this kind of consciousness, it can only be present, or is
any licensed under the free energy principle, in a world full of conspecifics and creatures,
and usually N and N functioned eternally, that depends upon lots of other people. So that now
becomes a slightly relational aspect to this kind of consciousness. So I haven't talked about the
inner screen hypothesis, but there is another quantum physics version of this. So there's lots
of different stories you can tell depending upon what people want to hear.
Carl, you touched on so many different ones there. I love the last one because
it reminds me of Chris Fritz's work, and he loves to talk about this social and relational
aspect of consciousness. You guys have written many papers together, and someone else you've written
with is a colleague of mine from South Africa, a very good friend, Mark Solms.
You guys have also written together, and I know Mark takes us down to a more basic level of
existence in terms of conscious experiences coming from more basic parts of the brain.
What got you guys to write together, and how did you guys sort of get together and do this?
These beautiful papers together. Right, well I'll just mention both Chris and Mark in that.
So interestingly, when I, as a young psychiatrist, got into brain imaging,
it was exactly at the same time that Chris was, Chris Frith, came from basically clinical
psychology and neuropsychology. Those were the worlds, certainly the UK's experts in schizophrenia
research. He came to join us at the MRC Cyclotron Unit, the very first brain imaging, also an
emission tomography studies of people with schizophrenia. So he's been my mentor and friend
since the inception of my academic career, and he's still meant to be writing the last paragraph
of the last paper that I'm trying to submit at the moment. Mark, but there's an interesting
