connection and comparison between Mark and Chris. Mark, I met later in life at international
conferences, and we're very impressed with, in those days, his encyclopedic and very embracing
knowledge of Freudian ideas in relation to psychoanalysis, but also neuropsychology.
So he's one of those polymaths who can transcend different fields. He can write volumes on Freud,
and yet bring the most informative and puzzling neuropsychological cases to the fore
to evince some very deep questions about how we experience our world and how that can be
expressed via things like neuropsychanalysis. So the interesting thing is that Chris really
hates Freud, whereas Mark loves Freud, but they're both, they're both committed to understanding the
brain as an organ, as a social organ. But as you rightly say, Mark is much more on the sort of,
you know, it predicates his work on the neuropsychology and the neurobiology,
whereas Chris is much more in terms of the dyadic and the social and social neuroscience aspects
that underwrite sense making where it matters. But both of them at the end of the day are trying
to understand the, you know, the patients they saw as young men, and perhaps Mark is still seeing
patients, I don't know. So that's how I got involved. Mark's ideas, you know, I think you're
absolutely right. They are more grounded in the wetwear that would have this,
that would endorse certain psychoanalytic, psychotherapeutic, neuropsychological and
psychiatric readings. And interestingly, he's happened upon exactly the same
focus that I suspect to your computational psychiatry thesis
focused on. So again, we come back to this key notion of precision and uncertainty. And of course,
you know, if you want a, you know, to naturalize psychopathology, it's all about beliefs. And
if you want to, what is definitive of a belief? Well, it has clearly, when thought of or when
read as a probability distribution, it has an attribute of content in terms of the location
parameters. But more importantly, it's got an attribute of uncertainty of dispersion.
That's the whole point about a belief as opposed to a point estimate. So if we are creatures that
deal in beliefs, then the, you know, the challenge that we face is basically evaluating and knowing
and representing our own uncertainty, either personally or subpersonally. You know, and indeed,
you can see this throughout, say, in economics, you know, the markets of lost confidence,
there's in, you know, things that matter, I usually knows the confidence and the uncertainty
that I hold my beliefs with. So that, that I keep using the word uncertainty, because there's a
lovely little phrase that Mark has celebrated in his most recent book that you know, The Hidden
Spring and Subsequence and Academic Publications, which is a notion of felt uncertainty. So he thinks
that feelings are all about the estimation of and deployment of precision uncertainty in exactly
the same way that we ended up trying to naturalize the resistance to illusions in people with
schizophrenia. It's all the same thing. So he puts a very heavy weight on that. To the extent he
gets very cross when people become cortical centric, you know, they think he's all in the
frontal lobes. He's literally deep in the hierarchy, literally deep in the cells of origin
of these really powerful neurotransmitter systems that do the attentional game, they do the
neuromodulation, they set the precision, they balanced and coordinate our belief updating.
And of course, that fits very comfortably with what we've talked about before, which is a mental
action read as attention, being able to get some control over those dynamics and belief updating
processes, that Bayesian mechanics that's going on inside our head.
So, I mean, you guys, both of your papers, I remember, you all sort of culminate and get
together with this idea that this Bayesian brain, this is fundamental to what we do.
When you think about perceptive experiences, we realize that at some point, my red sunset and
your red sunset are not the same. It's a very two different experiences, both comprised of
different neural, neuro factors, different social factors, different experiences in the past. So
even time plays a big role. This comes along well when you think of Markov blankets, because you
think of these different internal states, different active states, perhaps for each person who's
thinking, how do you find Markov blankets play? Well, let's first talk about how Markov blankets
play a central role in the free energy principle, and how this sort of navigates across different
areas from physics to chemistry to biology to psychology. Let's go to economics, etc.
Right. I thought you were going to talk about synchronization across Markov blankets and
communication. I wasn't sure you can get that at some point.
Excuse me. So, yeah, as you say, the Markov blanket plays a foundational role in the physics
reading of the free energy principle, where you have to, before you can start to talk about anything,
you have to be able to demarcate and define what you mean by something. And the first move is
to individuate that thing from everything else. How do you do that? Well, you simply identify
those states that intervene between everything else and the thing in question. They separate the
internal states, dynamics, paths, narratives. Technically, these would be states in a state
space, from the point of view of, say, a Langevin equation or some kind of statistical physics.
What transpires is that if you want to individuate the state's internal to something,
from the state's external to something, then one way of doing that, and one could argue the only
way of doing that, is to demonstrate that they are conditionally independent. If you want to be
able to separate, there has to be some kind of probabilistic separability. There has to be
some kind of independence. But it's conditioned upon the Markov blanket. So what does that mean?
Well, it basically means that you and I, almost specifically your brain and my brain,
are not closed systems. We are open systems, and our systems are open to our niche, our
environment, or our heat bath, if you were a physicist. But that kind of openness is a kind
that preserves that conditional independence between me on the inside and everything else
on the outside. And that's where the Markov blanket comes in. And then you can, for most things,
partition the Markov blanket into two sets of states, the active states and the sensory
states. The semantics are rather obvious in the sense that it's just making a distinction
between those states that mediate the exposure of the inside to the outside. So the influence,
the vicarious influences of the outside on the inside and those of the sensory states.
And then to complete the circle, to induce the necessary kind of circular causality we need
for the synchronization we're going to talk about, you have to have the other side of the street,
which is the active states that mediate the influence of the internal states on the external
states. So you've got this rather delicate, fundamental sparsity structure where the sparsity
is read in terms of the influence that one state has on another state. The foregrounds
a special set of states that are called blanket states that can be divided into active and
sensory states that intervene between the external and internal states. The inner screen
hypothesis we were talking about before inherits from a quantum information theoretic formulation
of this notion where you can look at this blanket as a screen onto which I can write,
say the environment or the world out there writes onto this blanket, writes onto this
holographic screen and those become my sensations and I can then read those sensations from the
holographic screen on the inside and then I can couple back so that the environment senses me
through my actions. So there's a, if you like, one level of perfect symmetry between the two
and that symmetry is just, sorry, that symmetry is evinced by the minimization
of free energy in the sense that if I can predict what's going on out there and what's going on
out there is at the same time in some sense trying to predict what's going on inside my head,
the ultimate free energy minimizing solution, the most likely solution just brings us back to
being in characteristic states for the environment and the mean. So we're talking just about a
description of a generalized synchronization or a synchronization of chaos between two
sparsely coupled dynamical systems with a special sparsely structure that allows me to preserve
my conditional independence. So in a sense the illusionist perspective we were talking about
before is a must, it can't be any other way if you define existence as conditional independence
from the world in which you are immersed, but of course there has to be a world in which you are
immersed so you can't take that too far in terms of a skeptical position. Yeah, when you think of
Markov blankets, in the context of let's say neural networks, how could the concept of Markov
blankets be used to better understand flow of information or computations within a neural network?
Is this applicable and are there any specific applications we could
utilize this concept to enhance our understanding of consciousness, neural connections, etc.?
Yeah, I think there are, it's interesting that you should ask that and what you should do is get
Maxwell Ramstead and Chris Field and possibly even Mark and then Mark Serms has also been
involved in these conversations and another other people I'm sure they will also suggest.
So this group have been thinking for a year or two and are currently submitting papers to things
like the general consciousness studies and elsewhere that rest explicitly on arving the
internal dynamics of a brain in terms of nested Markov blankets and trying to ask the question,
is there something unique about a Markov blanket on the inside in your brain which
may be physically very distributed but statistically well defined that could possibly
support consciousness? So this is the inner screen hypothesis that I mentioned before.
So your question, perhaps you've actually seen a preprint.
Well, it's a very prescient and astute question then because this is exactly what people like
Maxwell and Mark and Ken and David and everybody else would love and Chris would have loved to
have been asked. Yeah, so that's the whole premise that well, first of all, it's a spin back.
So you're right to ask, are Markov blankets useful? I think that they are foundational and
they're used implicitly everywhere. I mean, not only are they foundational in the sense that they
define your existence and my existence and anything that we engage with or we think we engage with
but they are implicitly used whenever you start to simulate or reproduce
or emulate any kind of sense making or intelligence, artificial or natural.
Whether you're playing with neurons, neural cultures in a dish, the cell membrane is a Markov
blanket that defines the cell, the connectivity of the neurons defines another scale of Markov
blanket or another scale, which says that this is a network.
And exactly the same maths applies to neural networks in machine learning and artificial
intelligence research and the operation of your iPhone or Google search machines.
So these things become practically really important in defining the network of a thing
that's doing the computations or the information processing in a pragmatic sense.
And indeed, you can read these active and sensory states as the inputs and outputs to
anything that is doing some kind of computing. So they are essential in defining things like,
say, von Neumann architectures. You and I don't use a von Neumann architecture,
but you can still use Markov blankets to define them. But even if you look at the kind of architectures
that we use for sense making in the hierarchal Bayesian brain or hierarchal predictive coding
story, then the message passing that is required to do the brief updating becomes tremendously
efficient due to the presence of these carefully self-maintained, self-evidencing Markov blanket
structures. So remember the Markov blanket rests upon a sparsity structure. It's what the connections
and the influences that are not there. So that means that you can now do local computations.
If you can define the Markov blanket of you, you may be just an element of your dendrite,
dendritic tree, you may be a synapse, you may be an entire dendritic tree, you may be a cell,
you may be a brain region, you may be the campus, you may be an entire brain,
you may be an entire person, or you may be a family, you may be a species, you may be an institution,
you may be a biosphere, and every scale the same rules apply whereby you get the efficiency from
the sparsity where the sparsity underwrites the very structure and the ability to actually dissect
every scale, the system at hand. So that leads to, I repeat, that's practically really important
when you're designing your networks or chips. You need to keep all your computations as local as
possible and you do that by using your Markov blanket. If you wanted to, if we return to
the implications for belief updating in a brain, then just saying the phrase hierarchical predictive
processing or hierarchical Bayesian inference immediately connects you to a certain class
of Markov blankets because the hierarchy is just defined in terms of the connections that are not
there. So each hierarchical level possesses a Markov blanket that separates its superordinate
level from its subordinate level. So just talking about hierarchical structures is just one special
case of a particular kind of nested Markov blanket. And then we get to, is there a special
Markov blanket? So now this is the crux of the paper that you haven't read, but I thought you had.
I'm looking forward to it. Well, I'll send you, well, I asked, you know, if you email Maxwell
Ramstead and Montreal, he'll send you, he'll send you, I've only got a copy with all the authors
redacted, so I'm not quite sure who the authors are. I'll take up that off, I'll take up that
off and definitely do that. No, he'd be delighted. So the idea of one of the key ideas that fits very
comfortably with the ideas from Chris Field and people like Jim Laysbrook and Mike Levin,
which is this inner screen hypothesis, is that there is one irreducible Markov blanket.
There is one that you can't get inside and find any hierarchical structure or any partition.
So what would that mean if there was one or more possibly, but there was certainly at least one
irreducible Markov blanket in my brain? It would have some quite profound implications.
It would mean that it could never see itself other than acting on the outside, which is the
rest of the brain. So the only way it can solve evidence is by engaging in mental action.
And now you ask, well, what kind of mental action would it engage? What are the executive
systems, the active states of this particular minimal Markov blanket? They are precisely
the cells of origin of the neurotransmitters that implement precision control and attention.
So we're right back with Mark Soames again, but we're in a very comfortable position because
not only are we friends with Mark Soames, but we're also friends with everybody who talks about
things like higher order thought theory. So predicate the entire argument on this hierarchical
structure, which means that at some level, and usually it's the higher level or the deeper level,
do interesting metacognitive things start to happen that you could associate with
conscious processing. But this is exactly what the minimal Markov blanket, irreducible Markov
blanket would say. It is something that is deep within the hierarchy that there is no higher
or deeper level. Because if there was, you'd be able to partition the internal states within
that minimal Markov blanket. It also fits very comfortably things like the global neuronal
workspace theory. I mean, what is global? And what is a workspace? Well, it's something where you
can share stuff. So you can't further subdivide it and it's global because it sees everything.
So it has, it has a lot of constructability in relation to a game where we started,
everybody's right, but they just got their own way of expressing it. But in this instance, we are,
or one is expressing it explicitly in terms of individuation, separability, read through the
lens of the free energy principle in terms of Markov blankets, crucially in a scale applied
to a particular scale, this scale is the scale of brains. So this wouldn't work when you're
trying to describe the weather or evolution. It wouldn't work when you're trying to describe
things at a quantum level or indeed at the level of a single neuronal, neural population.
This argument is scale is tied to a particular scale, but it has, if you like, a scale free
aspect in the hierarchical partitioning that induces the notion of a non partitionable or
irreducible Markov blanket. So, funnily enough, that notion of the irreducible Markov blanket
being the inner screen is exactly the new Cartesian theater that we're talking about.
That's very fascinating. I mean, I'm scheduled to chat to Mike Levin soon,
and I had no idea. I think I should send him an email to chat about this. You said it was Mike Levin,
Mark Sorms, Chris Fields, who else was, there was one more name you mentioned.
The inner screen hypothesis that, if you like, provides a cornerstone for this more collective,
inclusive effort to try and get at, you know, what Vanya Weiss would call a minimal unifying
model of consciousness. That includes people like Mark Sorms and David Rudolf and lots of people.
Organized by Maxwell Ramstead, and Chris Fields is a really important player in that,
but the inner screen hypothesis in and of itself is indeed due to Chris Fields and his
friends, and particularly Mike Levin and people like Jim Glacebrook. So, that formulation is
another, if you like, access, which you'll have some great conversations with both Chris and Mike.
So, they come at this from the point of view of sort of basal cognition, the notion that
everything is effectively, can be cast, and possibly even is, just a process of information.
