neuroscience, it's very natural to talk about nerves communicating with each other,
or nerves communicating with muscle, for example, or the immune system cells communicating with each
other. So this idea of information exchange is actually very natural throughout biology.
And biologists have been using this way of talking for decades now. So it's very standard.
And some people still kind of object to it. It's not quite scientific. But it's not only useful as
a language, but it's useful quantitatively to be able to talk about exactly how many bits are being
exchanged. And once you are quantitative in terms of bits, you can be quantitative in terms of energy
use and things like that. So there are things that one can measure in consequences, making claims
about information. So now go down to the molecular scale. If you think about something like DNA
binding a protein, you can look at the DNA sequence that binds this particular protein
and ask how many bits of information are encoded in this binding site.
And if you have one protein that binds many different places on the DNA, then you wind them all up
and you do the statistics on what nucleotides are present in what position,
and you can work out the information content of that binding site. So again, this is a
quantitative idea of information transfer between two molecules.
So when you can take that farther and think about a particle exchanging information about
its position with a field or something like that, and perhaps it becomes less useful there
because there's no longer the good quantitation to be done. But if you think about
reactions in particle physics as flipping bits, then a scattering process,
maybe you thought it was just an elementary information exchange.
Yeah. Yeah, that's what I was imagining. Say a photon interacts with an electron in an atom and
the electron goes to some energy level and the photons say momentum changes because of
interaction. So are you suggesting they are in some sense exchanging information about each other?
Right. Interesting. So where does, I mean, we know from experiments that
outcomes in quantum theory are probabilistic. So the electron can go to any sort of energy level.
I mean, it's not defined, it'll only go to a specific energy level. So what does information
mean in that sense when there is uncertainty of what sort of information is getting exchanged?
I mean, in our sense, human context, I'm not sure there is so much of uncertainty,
but I mean, I'm just trying to understand is in a very crude sense, do we say
measurement problem is really a way of looking at what information different systems choose to
reveal for lack of a better word? Yes. And I think your question, it opens up a deep debate
in the philosophy of mathematics that has to do with what is the nature of probability.
And the two sides of the debate are objectivists about probability
who believe that probabilities are, if you will, real ontological features of the universe
and subjectivists about probabilities that believe that probabilities are always descriptions
of a point of view. And the Bayesian tradition is based on this subjectivist notion of probability.
And it's certainly the version that I can make sense of.
So if we view probabilities in this subjectivist way, then an event is probabilistic
always with respect to some observational process that has to be specified.
So, suppose I want to measure the spin of an electron,
then the first thing that I have to do is find an electron, and then I measure its spin.
And I may say the probability of my measurement is half and half spin-up or spin-down.
What does that mean? And certainly from this subjectivist point of view, it means
before I made the measurement, I was uncertain about whether the spin was up and down.
But notice that I was certain about something. I was certain about a measuring electron.
That's a baseline assumption that I made. There's no uncertainty about the fact that
this thing I'm looking at is an electron, not a proton or something else.
So I'm measuring the spin of an electron, but I'm uncertain about what the outcome is going to be
until I get it, and then I know exactly what it was.
So I updated my probabilities about the electron spin after I've made the measurement.
So what does that say about the electron spin in reality?
And a pure subjectivist would say it doesn't say anything about the electron spin in reality.
The electron is there, we can assume, but it was a physical process acting on the electron
that allowed me to capture the things so that I could measure its spin.
And I don't have a description of that capturing process in my description of measuring its spin.
I assume that it's already captured. I've acted on this electron with the Z-spin operator,
but the Z-spin operator is acting on the electron. I haven't described the capturing process.
So this is a description that by and large is missing in physics when we talk about measurement,
the description of how we localize and identify the system that we're measuring.
And it's simply taken for granted that we can do that.
Right.
So here's a fable. You have a brand new student who's never been in your laboratory before.
And you say, go into the lab over there and tell me what the Keithley voltmeter is reading.
And so the student walks into the lab and there's this bewildering array of instruments and wires
and flashing lights and goodness knows what. So what does the student need to know
before she can make the measurement of the reading on the voltmeter?
She needs to know how to find the voltmeter. She needs to know what a voltmeter is and how
to identify one and what the word Keithley means and things like that. So there's a lot of knowledge
and hence a lot of observational work that goes into identifying the system.
And if we really want a complete description of measurement as an interaction between
me and my world, we have to include the description of how I pick out the systems in the world
and what measurements I have to make to identify my laptop, to identify my water bottle,
to identify myself, to distinguish all the things that I distinguish perfectly naturally.
And to neglect that is to actually neglect most of my interaction with the world.
I mean, I'm just trying to again capture what you said. Are you trying to sort of suggest that
the so-called measurement problem where experimental outcomes are probabilistic,
they perhaps have to do with maybe not specifying the system, not having knowledge of what system
you're going to interact with and the experimental outcomes make that clear.
I mean, because I'm trying to understand if you've put boundaries and identified a system
why should, I mean, I agree that that is a prerequisite knowing what system you are
measuring. But after you've done that, why should outcomes be probabilistic?
Okay. I think one needs to ask, what is probabilistic? What are you uncertain about?
So if I'm walking up to an instrument and we use the standard terminology
of an instrument that has a dial with a needle. So we talk about the pointer state of an instrument.
That's what, how is the pointer pointing in the dial? So to walk up to the instrument
and I don't look at its pointer state, but I identify it. So I said, this is the thing I
have to make a measurement of. This is the thing that I'm going to use to make a measurement.
And I'm making a measurement because there's something I don't know. Otherwise, I wouldn't
bother. So because there's something I don't know,
my understanding of the world is already probabilistic. If I know nothing whatsoever
about what my instrument is connected to, I know nothing at all about what the pointer
will be reading in its dial. So I can say, my probabilities for the pointer position are uniform.
My prior probabilities. I haven't made an observation of it. And I'm making an observation
in order to find that out, in order to decrease that uncertainty.
So I make the observation. Now I know the pointer is pointing to five.
So I can describe that as the collapse of the wave function, if I want to.
Although that seems an overly dramatic language to use for resolving my uncertainty about the
position of the pointer. So what does that say about the state of whatever that meter is connected to?
And I would say it doesn't say anything about the prior state.
Right? I was the one who was uncertain. I made the measurement. Now I know the measurement outcome is five.
Was the state of the system uncertain beforehand? That question doesn't even make sense.
Yeah, I was uncertain. Yeah, I think I understand what you're trying to say. I mean,
this is a consequence of importing intuitions from the classical world where you can specify
a position momentum to a very good precision and you can apply laws and it assumes that you know the
state to a good degree. But in the real world, you perhaps may not know in the first place. So
when you make a measurement, it appears probabilistic, but it's a function of
lack of being able to specify the state. Yeah, I'm in a sense making an argument that
Chris Fuchs has made very well in his colleagues in developing quantum Bayesianism,
or what's now called cubism, and beginning in 2010 at any rate. So he spent a decade doing this.
And his papers are very well worth reading, but he makes the point very plainly that
when we talk about uncertainty, we have to talk, we have to ask who's uncertainty is it?
And how is that uncertainty resolved? And to what extent is it resolved?
Right. Yeah. But I guess I mean, but you're right that we we did come up this with classical
intuitions. And those intuitions are in a large part driven by this classical notion of
a perfectly objective point of view. So if we think about a classical ideal gas contained in a container,
then classically, we have an ensemble of velocities and positions at any instant.
And so we regard that as random. But what does that actually mean? Right? We think of this
global kind of God's eye perspective that could actually know this gas molecule is moving this
way. This one over here is moving that way. And this one is doing this. And we can't see any of that.
So we think they're random. But each gas molecule is actually moving in some single direction from
some single position in classical physics. That's what we imagine. And quantum theory in a sense
allows us to do away with that assumption. So we don't have to make that assumption.
We can just talk about what we actually see. What are the experimental outcomes that we actually get?
And what is our uncertainty before we make a measurement and what's our uncertainty after we
make a measurement? Right. I mean, this, I mean, it's pointing to the fact that
whatever reality is, it's perhaps unknowable. But then it also sort of contrasts with a lot of
quantum phenomena. I mean, most of the quantum phenomena following these statistical laws.
I mean, if you perform an experiment again and again, you could predict where things will line up.
So, I mean, did you see these two things challenging each other? Because if
there is this uncertainty, then why do we have these meta laws at all?
Well, think about things that we know very well, like the magnetic moment of the electron,
or something like that. We can measure it over and over and over again, and we get these numbers
that we can predict and agree about to 10 or 12 or 14 significant figures.
So, there's certainly some regularity in the world that we're measuring. And if we
look at the world in a very specific way, then we can have extremely high confidence
that we're going to get this answer. Because there's some regularity or other about the world
that we're probing. And we call that regularity the magnetic moment of the electron.
And we have a picture in our head of what that means. Actually, we have many different pictures
in our heads about what that means. We have the picture of the electron is a little particle,
but with the spin, we have the picture of the electron as an excitation in a field that permeates
space-time. We have these different pictures, which we can manipulate mathematically to come up with
a value for this regularity. So, the regularity is incredibly useful. We know how to use it
to manipulate the world. So, we know how to use it to act on the world. But it doesn't
demand of us any particular metaphysics. We can view it as
a phenomenon that we know how to produce by acting on the world in a particular way.
Yeah. I mean, again, I mean, for example, from a subjectivist's point of view,
if you're doing the double slit experiment, it's impossible to predict where a particular
electron will land up in the pattern. But you can very well predict a pattern will emerge if you do
the double slit experiment a number of times. So, isn't the existence of that pattern in double
slit experiment an indicator of some sort of objectivity in the world? So, doesn't that undermine
a little bit the subjectivist's point of view? I don't think it undermines the subjectivist's
point of view about probabilities. Again, I at least would not advocate a position
that says that there are no regularities in the universe at all. There are clearly regularities
in the universe or in to, I think, put it more precisely. There are certainly regularities in
our interactions with the universe. And the double slit experiment is one of them. So,
the double slit experiment certainly telling us something very important. It tells us that
our classical notion of what a particle is is wrong, for example. It's not applicable to how
the world actually behaves. So, it's giving us real information. I think we just have to be
very careful in saying, what information is it giving us? What are we really lying here
from this regularity in the world that we know we can observe if we do certain things?
Right. So, you said something very interesting. You said double slit experiment is a feature of
our interaction of the world and not necessarily an objective feature of the world,
say independent of us per se. So, and I know you've talked about and written about
how sort of maybe it's almost impossible to talk about a completely observable free objective
world out there. So, can you elaborate on that? Why did you have to specify its feature of our world?
Okay. Yes, I can do that. And it goes back to the very first thing we talked about when we talked
about having a universe that's described by quantum theory that is
sitting there effectively letting its phase rotate around its Hilbert space.
And we divided that universe into two. And we talked about information exchange between the two.
Now, prior to that division, there's no classical information in that system at all. There's no
place to put it. All we have is a state vector in Hilbert space. Once we make the division,
we can talk about an interaction between the two parts. And we can talk about the eigenvalues
of that interaction, which are just numbers. So, that's classical information.
And we can ask, where is that classical information? And the whole graphic principle actually gives us
the answer. The classical information is encoded on the boundary. And it's encoded at a,
there's a maximal density of encoding that defines the smallest possible voxel of space.
And it's very small. So, you can actually get a lot of information all about it.
But that's where it is. That's where the classical information is.
So, let's go back to your question about objectivity. And why
I think we always have to talk about observations as relative to an observer.
If we think about observational outcomes as classical information, then they're encoded someplace.
And the basic physics would say, they're encoded on the boundary between the system that we're
calling the observer and the system that we're calling what's being observed. So,
now it's logically impossible for the not to be observer relative. So, if I, I'm going to draw
this universe in the air with my hands, right? Here it is.
Dr. Fields, for the benefit of listeners who may not be very familiar with,
and I know it may be hard, but when you say nothing ever happens in the universe as a whole,
I mean, how do you sort of explain that? Because I'm not sure if
everyone would understand what a Hilbert space is or a vector is. Maybe some analogy
to understand that classical information can only exist at a boundary.
Okay. This is, this is a good question. And I, the image I have in my mind is
from Tina Raymouth of the talking heads playing the song heaven is the place where nothing ever
happens. A Hilbert space by itself is the place where nothing ever happens. So, what's a Hilbert
space? A Hilbert space is a vector space. It's an abstract mathematical object. And if you think of
a system as having what physicists call degrees of freedom, which means characteristics that
can vary in some way or other, then you take all the degrees of freedom and you take all the
ways that they can vary. And every single distinct possible configuration of degrees of freedom
having values, you assign a vector to it. Okay. And you put all those vectors into a big abstract
space with enormous dimensionality. Right. And that's a Hilbert space. And so if you want to say
what's the state of the entire system, then it's some vector in that space because that's
