Hello, everyone. Welcome to Bold Conjectures with Parash Chopra. Today, I'm with Dr. Chris
Fields, who is an information scientist interested in physics, development, biology and cognitive
neuroscience. He's a PhD in philosophy from University of Colorado. He has held positions
as a professor and has played a key role in the human genome project. Currently, he's an
independent scientist. His recent publications include work in the foundation of quantum mechanics,
morphology, evolution, and information systems. As you can see, his research spans fields that
aren't traditionally overlapping. And that allows him to come up with unique and bold insights,
which I've really loved going through when I was reading in his papers.
Earlier in the podcast, I interviewed Dr. Michael Levin and Dr. Donald Hoffman.
And today's guest, Dr. Chris Fields, I've collaborated with both of them. I'm excited
to build on those previous podcasts and continue in the journey to understand how much we can
know about mysteries of reality and consciousness. Welcome, Dr. Fields.
Thank you very much and thank you for inviting me.
Dr. Fields, I want you to start with understanding what got you into studying quantum mechanics
professionally. I mean, I would love to know more about the art of your career.
Well, my career has been a bit of a random walk through academic space.
I was a physics major in undergraduate school with minors in both math and philosophy,
with a concentration in logic and 20th century philosophy.
And when I went to graduate school, I became an experimental nuclear physicist. So I spent
several years doing accelerator work. And that requires a certain kind of intuitive
familiarity with quantum theory to understand what you're doing, to understand what the results
mean. So I think I started to develop intuitions then when I was doing experimental work.
And I migrated from physics to cognitive science and then to biology and ended up spending
my early career in the human genome project doing bioinformatics. So
I'm following kind of a stint in the corporate world. My wife and I moved for several years
to Costa Rica and we became travel writers. And then I took up doing science again and
my focus was really on how humans or any intelligent systems, including individual
biological cells interact with their environments and how in particular
humans identify objects in the environment and regard them as existing through time.
Right. Which is an old philosophical question, but it can now be addressed with real science.
So it's very interesting. Yeah. I mean, it's interesting. Your career has went from physics
to philosophy to biology back to physics, travel writing, and then now again back to physics.
I mean, sort of a meta question before we dive into the main subject. Has it been
difficult for you to specialize like traditional academics to especially now that you are an
independent scientist, which is completely outside of academics? I mean, any general sort of
insight that you have about yourself in the sense of what made you explore so many different fields?
I think I'm more interested in questions than disciplines. And I find lots of things fascinating.
So I certainly have a background that would more or less preclude the standard academic career,
though I hope that the disciplinary barriers in academia are starting to come down because I do
think that most of the interesting big questions that are out there would benefit from many
different disciplinary points of view. Yeah. I mean, I personally have loved looking at this
phrase independent scientist as your affiliation whenever I'm reading one of your papers,
because it's very rare for, I mean, independent scientists in these days are rare. In the past,
when people were doing gentleman science, it was quite common. But today, most of the science
happens in academia. Right. Well, you know, certainly, experimental science is
extraordinarily expensive. So it requires a strong institutional basis to even be feasible.
Right. Right. The internet, fortunately, has made it possible to do research without being
on site in the library and to have colleagues without being in the same building or city or
anything else. Certainly. Fantastic. So Dr. Fields, coming to the main sort of one of the threads I
wanted to explore was this difference between quantum mechanics and classical mechanics.
So I know you've you've written about it and you've spoken about it. But I think as a background to
a lot that I wanted to get into, perhaps could you explain what essentially is the difference
between how we see the world around us, which is classical mechanics, and what's actually happening
when we sort of try to deal with quantum mechanics? Yes, I can watch into that.
I'm going to give you what may be a slightly radical view of things. But I think it's correct.
And I think that there are certainly people who would agree with me on this. That
classical mechanics and quantum mechanics, and I actually rather use the word quantum theory
than quantum mechanics for reasons that will become clear, are two very different kinds of things.
Classical mechanics is truly a theory of mechanics. It's about how objects move in space and time.
And the forces that act between objects as they move in space and time.
And as Nicholas Geisen has emphasized, the idea that forces had to be transmitted between
objects in time by some sort of carrier is really a fairly late idea in the history of
classical mechanics. And it was an idea that Einstein, of course, insisted on with the speed
of light as a speed limit on the transmission of forces. But in the first three centuries of
classical mechanics, basically from Galileo to the late 19th century, forces were thought of as
instantaneous. So one had this world, if you go back to someone like Laplace, who I think
had the clearest vision of classical mechanics that I know of. You had a world of particles
moving around, and they were instantaneously affecting each other by various forces. And
Laplace is time to main forces. Of course, there's gravity and then sin there after we had electromagnetic
So classical mechanics is really about things interacting in space and time. And in its roots,
it's about things bouncing off of each other in space and time. So classical mechanics is about
billiard balls or cannonballs or whatever. And quantum theory, I think is very different.
Historically, quantum theory was developed to deal with phenomena like the photoelectric effect
that radiation appeared at particular frequencies and not others. It was designed to deal with
atomic spectra where, again, you have energy appearing at particular frequencies and not others.
And to, of course, deal with atomic and nuclear physics. And the standard picture of an atom
looks like a little solar system. And that is, of course, not correct. This idea that the electrons
are moving in trajectories around the nucleus isn't correct. And Boris said that already in,
I believe, his 1913 or 15 or something paper, that this question of mechanical motion simply
couldn't arise in this atomic physics setting. So already you have with this rejection of the
literary idea of mechanics. And I would say that quantum theory is, in fact, not about mechanics
at all. And I would claim that quantum theory is not actually about motion and space and time.
It's not about particles. It's actually about how physical systems exchange information.
So in the last two decades or so, we've seen many, many formulations of quantum theory and
informational terms, and there's an entire field now of quantum information and quantum computing.
And this whole movement in theoretical physics is about giving physics itself an information
theoretic basis. And quantum theory is center stage as a description of how physical systems can
exchange classical, if you will, information, can exchange observational outcomes in the language
of the theory. So that puts quantum theory in a completely different place than classical mechanics.
It's not meant to tell us how things move around in space and time. It's meant to tell us about
how systems exchange information. And in particular, it tells us how we, as physical systems,
exchange information with our worlds. So people characterize quantum theory as having a measurement
problem. I would say quantum theory is, in fact, a theory of measurement. That's what it's about.
It's about how physical interaction leads to information exchange.
Right. I mean, in fact, you preempted my next sort of question, which was around measurement
problem itself. But I love this characterization of not using the term mechanics for at the quantum
level, because I mean, in the classic, from the classical world, our intuitions about objects
moving. What you're saying is that there is nothing, I mean, there may not be necessarily
a concept of movement, as we imagine in classical world, applicable in the quantum,
at the quantum scale. I mean, things may not necessarily be moving. I mean, say, a spin where,
I mean, the prototypical sort of characteristic of matter spin, there is no movement per se
happening, but quantum laws apply there. Right. Well, spin is a very good example.
If we think about a ball spinning, then obviously there's real rotation.
And if we have a ball or a gyroscope or something like that that's spinning up,
and we wanted to make it spin down, then we have to actually move the thing.
Yeah. But if one has
an electron in some orbital that has a spin of plus a half,
and it transitions to another state where it's spin is minus a half,
then there's nothing that you're not grabbing something and turning it over.
Yeah. Right. That whole idea of motion is not applicable.
Right. So from an intuition level, I mean, automatically these metaphors jump
where an electron is spinning on its axis or around the nucleus. I was curious to understand
what intuitions do you apply when you want to understand these things? Do you completely
eliminate any sort of classical metaphor and you just see these as maybe computer programs
exchanging information? No, I think it's helpful to try to eliminate as much classical thinking as
possible. But what do you replace it with?
I think that, yeah, I think a computing kind of metaphor
is probably very appropriate. I mean, if you think of electron spins, for example,
is just bits that can be flipped. I think that's a more
useful way to think about it than as little things spinning around.
Okay. Now, it's nice to draw little things spinning around, right? Because that really does
communicate an intuition to an audience. So I see no reason not to do that,
as long as the message is this isn't really a little soccer ball that's spinning around.
Okay. So you said quantum theory is a theory of systems exchanging information.
Can we dive deeper into this? What exactly is information here and what exactly is a system?
Well, I think the question of what a system is is one of the central questions in
quantum theory or in the meta theory of quantum theory. And I'll tell you how I think about it
at any rate. If one is just going to talk about a universe without saying anything about what
the systems in it are, then the axioms of quantum theory clearly apply. And they say you have a
universe that's an isolated system. So it's going to evolve through some unitary propagator.
So you can think of it as being represented by a vector in some very large Hilbert space.
And the vector just sort of sits there and rotates around in various places. And that's all
that's going on. So the system isn't actually isn't undergoing any measurable state change
by its, its, the phase of its vector is rotated. And that's it.
So if you want to say something interesting, one has to decompose this system into parts.
So the simplest way to decompose it is in the two parts. And so now we have the question of
how are we going to think about the description of these two parts?
And if we assume that the parts are maximally entangled,
then the division doesn't mean anything, right? We haven't actually done anything.
So if we want to think about parts of the system in a way that allows us to describe the parts,
we want the joint state of the two parts to be separately. So we want to be able to say
the, call the parts A and B. We want to be able to say that the state of A, B, the whole thing,
is a product of the state of A and the state of B. So we want to be able to assign states to the parts.
So whenever you say, okay, I'm going to divide the system into parts and I'm going to assign
states to the parts and be able to talk about them independently, then that's an assumption
of separability. And that's effectively an assumption that the interaction between the two
parts is weak compared to the internal interaction in each of the parts. So it's not a bad assumption
that you have two things that are interacting, but they're not interacting all that strongly,
so that they kind of count as individual objects. So let's think about describing my
interaction with everything that's not me, the rest of the world, the rest of my world.
I want to be able to think of it as having some state, and I want to be able to think of myself
as having some state. So I want to think of the joint state of me and my world as being separable
into my state and world state. And that allows my interaction with the world to exchange information
with the world. So I can get information from the world and I can give information to the world.
So what does information mean here? It means observational outcomes.
So if I'm looking at the world, my world, then I'm seeing various things. I'm seeing a laptop,
I'm seeing you, I'm seeing my window, etc., etc. And simultaneously, my world is observing me,
if you will. So I'm moving around, I'm radiating heat, I'm breathing, I'm doing things that affect
the state of the world. So there's this exchange. That's a physical interaction.
But that physical interaction moves information back and forth.
Right. Okay. So to back up a little bit, I just want to make sure I understand what you're saying.
So a system, I mean, if we talk about the two entangled particles, then they're obviously in
one system because they cannot be independently sort of changed without impacting each other.
So sort of a definition of system is where you can independently change
something without impacting the other thing in a significant manner. And if we see universe
as a whole, say from a vantage point of somewhere on the outside, even though it's not possible,
then quantum theory says everything is entangled. So there is no sort of
clear system that can be identified from the outside. But within it, are you saying for
practical purposes, we can assume isolated systems exist, and they are making observations?
Well,
there are several pieces of that. So let's distinguish them. For practical purposes,
we have to be able to say that systems exist. Because for practical purposes,
if we're going to do experiments, we have to say that we exist. And we have to say that our
measurement apparatus exists. And we have to say that we're embedded in some environment that we
don't care about. So those, if we're going to talk about anything at all, we have to make those
kinds of assumptions. Now, those systems aren't isolated, because there's only something interesting
to say if those systems are exchanging information with each other. So they're not isolated,
but they're interacting fairly weakly. They're interacting weakly enough that the overall
evolution of the universe doesn't re-entangle them in the amount of time that's interesting.
So if you take a system, take the universe, decompose it in two, and say, okay, I have my two
weakly interacting systems that I can talk about a separable state, but I leave that for a long time,
or just let it sit there and let the two systems interact, eventually they'll become entangled again.
That's just what quantum theory demands, right? The whole system is isolated, so it's a unitary
propagator, so it's going to re-entangle everything. So in a sense, our observations have to be fast
on some timescale. So from a practical point of view, you can think of our conversation is
very, has happened very quickly on the timescale of the evolution of the universe, right? So it's
effectively instantaneous. So we don't have to worry about our separability assumption breaking down,
the assumption that we have to make to have a conversation in the first place,
or to record data in a notebook, or to do anything else. We don't have to worry about that assumption
breaking down because we're doing things very quickly. Right. So what does exchange of information
mean? I mean, I understand that from the human context, we're speaking things and you're understanding
what I'm saying, but say from a non-human system perspective, what does exchange of information
mean? Well, I think we can ask that question at different levels of anthropomorphism because,
again, we're relying on our intuitions about what these words mean. And this is a place where
thinking about biology is very useful. So you can think about
animals communicating in the wild. And that's pretty clearly like human communication, right? So
a meerkat gives an alarm call and the other meerkats do something or other in response.
So this is communication, the way that we can really understand from our human perspective.
But we can take that sense of communication to plants or to microorganisms. And it still
works very well. So if you're thinking about human physiology, certainly if you're thinking about
