that's the way you define the space. It's the space of all possibilities.
And if you think of what's that system doing, it's just exploring the possibilities in its
space of possibilities. So its state is some vector that's migrating around in that space of
possibilities. And that migration process has a description in quantum theory, which is called
unitary evolution. And what that what that means is no information is lost in this evolution.
So no information is gained either. It's sort of like a clockwork deterministic.
Yeah, it's it's actually very much like the concept of Laplace when everything affected everything
else instantaneously. Right. So there is there are no probabilities involved. What's going to happen
from a instance to instances completely determined by the previous state?
It's
Yes, it's it's determined by the evolution itself.
And this this whole picture becomes intuitively it's it's very difficult to keep in your mind
because when we think of a system evolving, we think of it as evolving in time.
But there's no clock. There's no external clock. There's just this universe. So if there are any
clocks, the clocks are on the inside. And their states are part of the migration of the state
interesting. So so we can't really bring these intuitions about time
into thinking about a universe using quantum theory. Got it. So what you were saying was
there is no information to be gained because no information is lost. So there's no uncertainty.
And then we talk about observation, which is always about uncertainty reduction.
Then the reason it's classical is because at the whole universe scale, there is no observation to
be made. Right. Yeah. To talk about observation, you have to cut the universe in two.
Okay. And again, what did you mean when you said this information exists at a boundary?
So if you if you if you think about your university, right, you size it in two.
So you've got the left half called A and the right half called D and they're interactable.
And so you can ask how big is this interaction compared to the sizes of A and B?
Well, remember, previously, we were talking about this assumption that we have to make that the
interaction is weak. Yeah. In order for A and B to have well defined states. So if the interaction
is weak, it means that the the area, if you will, there's no space time here yet. Right.
The area, if you will, where the interaction is taking place is kind of small
with respect to the whole degrees of freedom of A and B. Okay. They're just interacting a little bit.
So you can think of that interaction. And here we'll actually think about little spinning things.
Right. That interaction has a particular dimensionality, which is is given by
how many degrees of freedom are involved in actually interacting. Right. How many degrees
of freedom are touching each other, if you will. And that dimensionality can be represented
mathematically when we write down the interaction. And one can always represent that interaction
mathematically by assuming that what the systems are doing is exchanging bits.
And if you want to think of it, you can imagine that they have a whole string of
of of quantum bits, of little spins. And what the system A does is arrange those spins in some
particular pattern up, down, up, down, up, down, up, down. And system A has her own idea of what
up means and what down means. And then system B over here looks at those spins and makes measurements.
So there and system B has its own idea of what up is and what down is. And B are different,
so they can have completely different ideas. So if A says, okay, spin number one is up this way,
but up for B is this way. Right. Then when B is in this direction for measures this spin,
then it's perpendicular. So it's probabilities are going to be the same one way or the other.
But if B happens to think that up is this way, then it will get the value one all the time.
Right. So you can think of these systems as exchanging bits, but with uncertainties based
on their possible disagreement about what they mean by up.
Right. Yeah. I mean, the uncertainty is in lack of shared vocabulary or incomplete overlap.
Yeah. And you've got the system in tune. This is their only communication is
arranging these bits. Right. So there's no prior agreement about what counts as up.
So the holographic principle is just the idea that we can always represent
this kind of encoding of information as encoded on a surface at a particular scale.
And that principle comes from black hole physics as a way of talking about
how much information can be obtained from a black hole by someone looking at it from the outside.
And it's exactly proportional to the surface area, not to the volume.
And hence the idea of holography. But it's also clear if you just think about it in this more
abstract way of two systems exchanging information. We've made the assumption that
excuse me, that the interaction is weak. So the systems don't know much about each other.
They just know what's encodable on this shared sequence of bits or shared little
holographic screen that they're writing bits on. Right. I mean, it sort of reminds me of how
say something like cryptography works where there is this exchange of information but through a
channel and you have to define the protocol first. Otherwise nothing makes sense.
Right. Exactly. We don't have to question any communication set.
So Dr. Fieldson, I mean, we are coming to the end of a conversation. I wanted to sort of
just explore as a last bit. How does this all connect to band psychism? I know in one of the
talks you mentioned that you feel it's inevitable feature. I mean, band psychism is where consciousness
or this experience is a feature of the universe. So can you talk about how did you arrive at that
view if I'm capturing it correctly? I would say that if one thinks about observation and measurement
in this way that we've just been describing, then that description is completely independent
of what the systems we're talking about are. It's completely independent of how we slice the universe
up. So if it describes us and our obtaining of information from the world, then it describes
how trees obtain information for the world and it describes how electrons obtain information
from the world and how planets obtain information from the world. It doesn't matter. It's any system.
So it's not just scale independent, but it's independent of everything else as well.
So if one thinks about our experiences, which I did, as the outcomes of our
observation, our observing actions on the world, then we have a ready made theory for how that works.
It's quite an information theory and it applies to everything. So I think that's at least a
good starting point for saying what's true of my experience is true of experience in general.
And hence a good starting point for thinking. Okay, well, you certainly see biological systems
at all scales exchanging information. And we certainly see that information exchange
affecting behavior in very important ways.
And we see biological systems at all scales having experiences that are having
observations, shall we say, that they like and they don't like, that they approach to get more of
and run away from to get less of, even in plants. So from your bacteria. So why not regard this as
experience? I think it's perfectly reasonable to regard it as experience.
Yeah. And if you're willing to go to them to the molecular scale, then you might as well go to
arbitrary scales. Yeah. The consequence of this are paffeling.
Yes.
Have you have you seen any change in your personal beliefs or the way you live because of these conclusions?
Well,
I've probably always had a fairly panpsychist outlook.
I would say I've probably become a nicer person in the last 10 years since I started meditating.
But I don't have a good answer to that question, actually.
Okay. Great. So thank you so much, Dr. Chris Fields. It's been an absolute pleasure to talk to you.
I mean, I thoroughly enjoyed it. I have lots of more threats to explore, but in a limited time,
I think this has gotten a lot of key points sorted out. At least I've gotten them sorted out.
And I think this idea of nothing ever happens in the universe and the information being limited to
what two systems, for lack of a better word, choose to exchange is deeply fascinating because
beyond the observation, there is no way to say what must be happening in the true objective world.
Maybe an electron is not an electron as we see it, but that's just the interface we have with the world.
No, I think that's a good summary. Well, thank you very much.
Thank you. Have a great day. Bye-bye. Take care. Cheers. Cheers.
