And it can be really strong like a bonding, you know, device.
But then once, you know, sometime passes and you like, I don't know, I'm looking at a World of Warcraft poster.
So for example, if, you know, World of Warcraft was your life for several years and all your friends are World of Warcraft people, like after a few years, you probably like change as a person, develop different interests.
And then suddenly you're living with and like living with dating, you know, only surrounded by people from this old thing that you used to love and you have nothing else in common.
Sometimes.
That's weird.
I like things a lot, but I don't like anything enough to like live with people who like that thing too, based on the fact that like that, that they like that thing.
I generally less so now, which is weird, but up until a few years ago, I had a very addictive personality.
And if I got into something, I got into it hard.
When I played World of Warcraft, that was my life.
I would work so I could pay the bills so I would have some place to play World of Warcraft when I wasn't working or sleeping.
But would you want to like, have roommates or like, okay.
My whole guilt should totally have been in a group home and we could have all just like played together, but it's so awesome.
Okay.
Up until I dropped out of World of Warcraft.
Maybe I've never known true love with a fandom then.
Oh, you must not, because I've been through that.
Like, I was always sad when I didn't have a fandom.
Like I felt kind of lost.
I mean, I saw Thor Ragnarok in theaters six or seven times.
I was a big fan of the Marvel movies, but not enough to seek out people in the movie theater.
Like do you want to go, you know, even grab a drink?
That sounds exhausting.
Maybe I don't, maybe I'm averse to people.
It's just humans that you hate.
Not hate, just they're, they're, it's
Tiring.
Yeah.
And like, I love hanging out with people.
It's just, I can't imagine like, come crash my place for a week.
We could talk more about this movie.
No, seriously.
I mean, I was into Warhammer.
But Warcraft is bigger than the MCU.
So like, there's more to talk about there.
Yeah, I was into Warhammer for a long time.
And whenever I was with other people to play Warhammer, all our conversations were almost entirely about Warhammer, you know.
I don't know enough people who like the Marvel movies.
I can't even get all my co-workers to see all of them, which is weird.
Huh.
Yeah, that is weird.
Right?
I'm a software developer.
And there are people there.
Like, there are so, there are so few people there who like play ping pong or what are
the other things that nerds do, like see nerdy movies, I guess.
I don't know.
What kind of nerds?
Play ping pong?
What was that?
Play ping pong is not what would come to my mind.
Well, because there's a flood of activity.
There's a ping pong table on the floor.
But I'm trying to think of those.
We were just having a conversation about this about how hard it was to find.
Oh, I play Pathfinder on Wednesdays.
Yeah.
And right now we're down to three of us out of like 100 developers in this building.
And I'm like, why is it so hard to find 5% of us who want to play, you know, Pathfinder
every week?
Yeah.
So that was why this was.
The original nerd pastime, D&D.
Yeah.
Yeah, come on guys.
This shouldn't be that hard.
There's, why are there so few of us there?
Oh, maybe they don't have social skills.
This is my first Pathfinder game.
We're not, you know, they're, I think we're pretty sociable.
I don't know.
That was a joke.
Oh, no.
I was talking about, you know, nerd stereotypes.
And that's a fair, I think, I mean, it's a stereotype for a reason, but the community
of people that was hired at my company tend to be pretty like, you know, chill.
They go out like bars and hang out.
They're like, they're like everybody else.
They have like normal interests.
Yeah.
Do they also like sports?
Yeah.
They go outside and everything.
It's weird.
Dude.
Yeah.
And they don't catch fire when the sun hits them.
It's weird.
Yeah.
All right.
Okay.
What's the next one?
Next one is, we got a few things about the spirituality and religion thing.
And in a mail again says, I do think it's worth distinguishing spirituality and religion.
I'll pull some definitions out of my ass here.
Always a bad first step.
Let's, let's call religion anything that requires false beliefs.
The closest thing I can get to a steel man of all this religious stuff is that humans
actually do interact with entities that you might call powerful, mysterious super intelligences,
such as the intelligence social web or your subconscious mind or the natural ecosystem.
And it might be effective for you to not even pretend you understand why bearing you
fish with your crops is a good idea.
And just say it was because God said so, because at least that will motivate you to do it.
Meta strikes again.
The text says because Thor says so.
Yeah.
I didn't want to be God, God's chauvinist.
You know, I should stick with Thor.
I mean, okay.
Just saying.
All right.
Miss quote.
Fine.
Because Thor says so.
I don't want to specifically endorse Thor because he's recently burned down somebody's house.
Yeah.
But like, I think he meant well.
That's true.
You said it was kind of possibly for the best.
Well, I was planning on selling that house and moving anyway.
And I was taking a very long time and it was stressing me out a lot.
Yeah.
So.
And the Thor is in this situation because her house was literally struck by lightning
and caught fire two days ago.
It's pretty weird, especially because I was thinking about that episode right before I left.
There had been three weeks of really bad thunderstorms in the area.
So I was looking forward to coming to Colorado and getting some of the sun.
And I was like, all right, Thor, I'm getting on the plane.
Hey, like take care of me.
Like help me.
I don't know.
I was just thinking like, hey, like, why the heck not?
Let's say a little part of Thor.
And I can't remember my exact wording now.
But yeah, then I heard that that had happened.
And I was like, no, not like that.
You apparently did it wrong.
Well, I sacrificed a beard to him last night.
So I hope he is not mad at me or anything.
So, okay.
Are we joking here?
I'm assuming we're still joking.
We are joking.
Okay.
Okay.
I'm just kidding because then that episode we had with David when he like, I thought
he was joking at first and then I was like, oh wait, he's not joking.
Yeah, I talked with him.
You, you know, sent me his friend request and I actually had a conversation with him about
that.
And I actually get the sense that he is and is not joking at the same time.
Yeah.
Which is David in a nutshell.
Not cool.
Like you can't be joking and not be joking at the same time.
I get the feeling you're trying to pull.
It's kind of like, let me read your reaction.
I need to decide if I'm joking or not.
Right.
But no, as, as more than a male was saying, I don't, I don't like that.
For the first of all, let's call a religion anything that requires false belief is, I
don't think anything requires false belief.
Well, I wrote back responding to that that I, I liked the idea of separating the two things
obviously spirituality and religion, but that seems insufficient because it doesn't feel
like it's a false belief from the inside, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think it would be a better definition might be anything that requires something met a
sort of like non science violating, you know, supernatural to happen.
And I don't think anything good requires a false belief.
Anything that can be destroyed by the truth should be as they say.
That's why I get really annoyed when there's made up arguments or rather made up, what
do you call them, lies about, you know, about people I disagree with or, or, you know, like
something comes up about, you know, the Trump administration that turns out not to be true.
There's so much real ammunition here.
You're just making us look bad because then when they disprove this, they're going to,
they're going to throw out the rest of the true shit.
So the only steelman I can think of of a false belief being a good thing would be maybe to
protect people who are really emotionally sensitive and easily traumatized.
For example, a child's pet died, the parents maybe, I don't know.
Actually, I think I disagree with that.
I could probably think of a better example if I weren't really sleep deprived, but I think
that like, you know, it might be worth maybe if somebody's friend or spouse had died in
a horrific car accident and it was really bad to kind of white lie to them about how bad
it had been or just not like, you know, let them know certain aspects.
Yeah.
There's some things where you don't need to know how horribly it was that someone died.
I think the steelman is bending over so far backwards though that it's not even worth,
you know, like I think when he said that the fish bearing fish with your crops example,
that sure, maybe it's important to get the fish with their crops no matter why you do it,
but that keeping holding onto that belief also means that you never really investigate why it's important.
It's important because Thor said it's important.
Okay, I'll keep doing it.
And then you never find out about nitrogen and the wonders that you can do with synthetic fertilizer.
Right.
Yeah, if you're just doing it the old fashioned way, there's no room for improvement.
And it turns out there's way more efficient ways to fertilize the fields than bearing fish in them.
I'm assuming I'm not a farmer, but I can only assume that there's reason we're not doing that now.
We still do that.
