And you will realize that their purpose is to present ideas that may not necessarily be true,
but function to throw in contrast those parts of the established model that don't make sense.
I feel like inserting whatever hokum you have into their blank parts in the map is not the way to go.
Yeah.
But to be charitable to David, I think if it does get you to where you're trying to go,
then what is it but useful, right?
So he does close with saying instrumental rationality for the wind or something.
Yeah.
But he says down with ontological rationality.
I'm betting that part was tongue in cheek.
Okay.
I'm betting.
Yeah.
It makes me think of the Bayesians versus barbarians essay where, you know, if you're going to fight a bunch of barbarians,
you probably should just try to like become a barbarian too.
But then you have to go back to normal afterwards being the problem.
But yeah, it would be nice if you did have that switch where you could turn it on and off or have like an intensity knob.
That's what I want.
I don't want to get rid of the emotions or the ability to have fun with rituals.
But I just want control over it.
Right.
I like the idea of knobs for all these things that be great.
Once we're all robot bodies, we can turn them up and down ourselves.
Oh yeah.
And the problem is we got to live with our meat bodies until we get to that point.
And we've been outside too.
A lot of these things are so distracting and annoying that like you'd be like,
no, I'm doing great.
Why don't I want to turn up those distracting things?
I'll just stay focused and all this.
But all that aside, then yeah.
I mean, I think that's why we have the whole warrior class that we tolerate because it takes a lot to get people into that mindset
and they can't come out of it easily.
You mean warrior class of like...
I mean like...
Police officers.
I was about to say like people in the south that love their guns and shooting stop signs from their pickup trucks and stuff.
I don't think they're the warrior class that we're talking about.
They're the bands of raiders.
Displaced warrior class.
But they also are...
That sort of mentality is highly overrepresented in the military's fighting ranks, right?
I assume so because...
That's what my brother told me from being in the army.
Yeah, and I think that's a safe bet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, you know, we talked...
We kicked off the episode talking about giving up freedoms for...
You know, giving up some autonomy for the protection from the system, right?
Yeah.
And the first thing I thought it was just like enforcing speed limits, right?
You mentioned like to get anywhere and I was like, hey, to get anywhere, you know, like on the highway.
And yes, I want somebody telling people they can't drive 120 on the highway because they could kill me.
Yes, in some sense, we need that sort of enforcement, right?
I forget where I was going with this.
All right.
That is all I got for listener feedback.
Cool.
Me too.
Okay.
So what we're talking about today is productivity hacks.
How to get things done when you don't want to do things.
I was going to call it productivity systems because hacks has a weird connotation, but sure.
Okay.
Productivity systems.
How to get things done when you want to get something done.
Is that not a good subtitle?
You gave me sort of a dubious look.
Why don't we let...
Why don't we just subtitle it and name it?
Okay.
Yeah.
Make them up.
Actually, can I derail us just for one minute?
Please.
I am very sorry.
It just occurred to me that I wanted to say something in this episode and I think this
would be a perfect occasion to do that.
So I put together a quote unquote online anthology of rational fiction short stories.
And I am releasing it to the world today.
Yay.
Yay.
Thatficonline.website and yes, it's website not.com because that was much cheaper.
And this thing is something that I just put a dozen hours into and threw it up and I will
never touch it again.
So that is why I want to pay as little as possible for it.
But what it is is nine short stories that are, I consider rational fiction and most people
consider rational fiction and it's kind of there as like an introduction to what rational
fiction is.
This is some examples of the form.
This is, I wrote a little introduction before each one, like two, sometimes three paragraphs
before the story saying, this is why this story fits the rational fiction criteria.
And yeah, I think they're really good.
There's quite a few like professionally published ones out there that have the short story up
online so I can just link to it.
Like Exhalation by Ted Chang is on there.
I have Lord Iron and the Cambist.
Maybe it's the Cambist and Lord Iron.
I never remember what order they come in by Daniel Abraham.
It's a great fairy tale about economics.
And yeah, and I'm really happy about it.
I can't say I'm proud of it because I didn't write any of these stories, you know, but
you, you anthologize to them.
Yeah, I put, I put a list of links together.
Anthologizing is a fancy word for, I put some links together and wrote some introductions.
But there it is.
And I hope you guys enjoy.
They're quick to read and they're really fun.
Maybe it can help get some more understanding by example of what this rational fiction thing is.
I'm really glad that you did it because I thought that I was pretty well read in Rat
Vic and there's a few on there that I haven't read yet and I'm super excited about reading
them.
Cool.
Yeah.
I didn't know any of the ones that you just listed off.
So.
Oh, okay.
And I'm not that well read, but I've read some.
So if you ever do, side note, if you ever do like a related section, I know Zeke Aran
was putting together a list of things that aren't really rational fiction, but I think
we overall enjoy things like Dan Dennett's Where Am I essay, which if you haven't read,
I think it's fun.
I did read it actually.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or like The Egg by Andy Weir.
So like cool little things like that.
So I'd reach out to him because I know he posted that like on the Facebook page and stuff
and was talking about that.
Oh yeah.
I could throw some things on that list too.
Yeah.
So maybe there's something we can throw together there too or he can put his own website together.
Well, you know, or we could just have like a special section off the Facebook group for
you know, Red Fick that we in Denver like, everyone who's not in Denver can suck it.
Sounds good.
Or they can move to Denver like Jess is doing to be part of the in crowd.
But it also included like Metropolitan Man, M-O-R and those sorts of things too.
So that sounds awesome.
Congrats.
Cool.
Thanks for doing that.
Thank you.
I hope people like it.
Is it a living list or are you going to just?
No, no, it is.
It is.
Well, you know, like any anthology, any real anthology, you actually buy the stories, put
them in a book, print it and ship it out there and then like the book is out there.
But the better anthology, the kind that can live and grow, is this one of those?
No, no, no, it's not dead, it's out there and growing happily in its little glade in
the forest.
It's not getting any bigger.
Right.
Exactly.
All right.
Yeah.
Then it gives me a chance of actually finishing it.
So that's partly why it's asking.
Oh, okay.
Yes.
Maybe someday in the far future, I can do like volume two or something.
But yeah, this one is how it is and not changing unless like I get a lot of emails saying I
really disagree with this choice.
Why is this story in here?
But I don't think that will happen.
Yeah, I don't anticipate that from what I saw based on the list.
Cool.
Okay.
Awesome.
So on to productivity.
How do we do productive things like make online anthologies when there's all these tasty
video games that we could be playing instead?
Please tell me.
Oh.
Because I've burned through a lot of, I didn't do anything, I haven't played video games
since Monday except for tonight.
So I guess I went two days, which is kind of a big deal for me because I went months
without playing and I got this fun little game for the Switch that I put like, I don't
know when I got it.
I think it'll be two weeks to go this weekend.
Now you got to tell us what the game is.
Maybe three weeks to go because I got it before I got eye surgery.
It was Octopath Traveler.
Oh yeah.
It's not that great of a game.
I was telling you guys about the other game.
No, it sounded cool to me.
It's fun.
It's like, but it's not, you know, the next, like I got Bloodborne for PS4 and I've been
playing that a lot too and that's a game I can like totally, you know, preach about.
This is just fun and time suck, but there's not like a sense of, there's not a real sense
of accomplishment you get from it.
It's just a fun grind.
So.
Dude, I played kittens for like weeks and that's just grindage.
Kittens?
Kittens.
It's really called kittens.
