I have a hoodie at my desk.
Now you got to buy a nice three-piece suit, drop a grand on it just so people won't think
you're signaling anymore.
Although there's a couple of people at work who do that and they look like assholes.
So, um, like, I mean, well, no, no, they, no, they, they wear suits to work and it's,
it's a couple of managers and they're, they, whereas my manager has a set of orange crocs
at least at his desk and he wears those at work with his shorts and t-shirt.
I think that that's much more the vibe that I want.
And then, you know, if my boss came around my desk wearing a tie and a, you know, a jacket
and stuff and it's like, why are, that seems like he's overtly signaling, right?
And well, cause he is, and it's definitely a status thing.
Yeah.
There's partly, there's the uniform of the programmer, which is, like you said, jeans
and a t-shirt and a hoodie and usually off brand sneakers and the backpack because computer
bags are just the most useful thing ever.
I don't know why humans ever tried to go to briefcases or messenger bags or anything
else.
They're inferior.
You can access like a messenger bag or a purse more easily.
Like if you need to grab your phone, you have to kind of take one strap off of a backpack
and swing it around and like to get your wallet out.
It's a little awkward, but it's also nice to be like hands free and to be able to carry
more weight.
But children wear backpacks to school.
So because they're very useful.
No, I know.
But that's my point.
So that's, that's the reason to move away from them.
That's where I go to briefcase.
And you don't, you don't wear a, maybe also it leaves your clothes, your suits unruffled
if you're going to the office carrying a briefcase rather than having your, your straps digging
into it.
Right.
Right.
Actually, there's all kinds of great and stupid reasons for it.
But yeah.
It's a very comfortable backpack a few months ago and it's great.
So I like that you thought through reasons people would use a briefcase.
Like the whole suit thing makes a lot of sense now that you mentioned it.
I doubt that's the explanation.
I just pulled that out of my ass.
I think it's sort of a critical, your paperwork that you're putting in the briefcase.
Probably that too.
Like if you have a laptop, you can stick it in a sleeve and you can throw it in a backpack.
But like I have a folder right there in my backpack that is getting destroyed.
Yeah.
Having something rigid.
Any, any paper that I put in my backpack gets ruined too.
So yeah, if I had, if, if my, if my, you know, realtor or lawyer showed up to a meeting
and pulled out a bunch of ruffled shit from his backpack, I'd be pretty annoyed.
Right.
So we figured it out and mystery solved.
So can we start from the top?
There was three different kinds of production systems.
There was the, there might be more, but that was like kind of where my brain wanted to
separate them.
There's the, like the books, the philosophies behind productivity systems.
There's tools like the promoter timer, like an app, the lesser on study hall, a tool that's
a something that you can use.
And then there were hacks, which they're tools that aren't apps.
It's like the rituals, for example, or like doing things to trick your brain.
Okay.
Can we talk about some of those?
Yeah.
I was just going to say.
So it's hard to explain without giving an example.
A good example is I have trouble getting out of bed in the morning, or at least I used
to until I've learned that I've been using melatonin wrong.
Thank you, Scott.
But I, yeah, my alarm would go off and I would, you know, just keep hitting snooze and the
only thing that would get me up is panic of, oh no, I need to be at work or at this place.
So I, I know that I need to get up now or I will be late, but I heard someone recommended
when you, when your alarm goes off, literally jump out of bed with like the most excess
ridiculous amount of force.
I've heard that.
Yeah.
And it is like totally works.
Or at least it works some of the time anyway.
I guess it's the same concept of, you know, just jumping into the pool instead of trying
to like dip your toe in and then just slowly slide your leg in, like just, you know, pull
the bandaid off.
I totally agree that going into a pool slowly is just a stupid way to torture yourself.
Jump right in and you adjust to it within a few seconds, whereas if you're going in
slowly, you get this creeping slowly all the way up your legs, discomfort kind of, yeah.
That's how I feel if I would pull a bandaid off really slowly.
Another trick I've seen people do is they set their alarm clocks forward and they'll
set it forward 25 minutes or something.
Yeah.
But you, you adjusted that within two days.
Okay.
So I didn't know if people, at least something I've seen people do, I've never tried it.
Cause I like knowing what time it is, but your alarm clock or you mean like your, your
clock clock.
That you have like your clock that makes noise in the morning.
It's like not your, not your timepiece for the day, but your, uh, and not, not, not the
time that it goes off.
Um, yeah.
So you need to be up at seven 30 and your iPhone says it's seven 30, but your alarm clock
on your nightstand, you set, you set that 30 minutes ahead.
And so you look at that and it says it's eight o'clock and your brain wakes up and you're
like eight o'clock, I needed to be up half an hour ago and that little jolt helps get
people get up.
But you're seeing people adjusted that right away.
Oh yeah.
It's really effective like once or twice, but then as long as you have any sort of
intellect, you look over and you're like, hmm, okay, eight minus 30 is seven 30.
Okay.
It's seven 30, even while you're almost entirely asleep.
My partner has a problem of a time management.
So he actually does change all of the clocks in our house to be like five to like seven
minutes, uh, you know, uh, late.
Yeah.
But then, then he knows that it's not the actual time.
Yeah.
But he, he changes it.
Oh, he does it constantly.
So often he'll change it back to normal and then, uh, and, uh, he doesn't remember whether
or not he's changed it.
The other trick might be to like tell somebody, I did this for a while in my car.
I had my car clock a few minutes ahead, but I found it not to be at all helpful because
I would just know that it was some time ahead.
And eventually I crossed, I crossed it with a reliable clock, but I was, had my passenger
when I was looking at the road, I said, Hey, press the minute hand and the minute button
on the clock a few times less than 10, but more than, you know, a couple.
And then I, then I knew it was ahead, but not by how much.
So I would just tell my brain and I look at it and know that it was wrong, but say, tell
yourself that's the real time.
And then I, you know, I would try and be on time better or something, but I'm fairly
punctual anyway.
So it didn't really make a difference, but I gave it a shot.
But the randomness part of it, you said five to seven ish minutes means that like, if it
was three minutes fast, they would adjust probably pretty quickly.
But if they, if they know it's up a little bit, then it's easier since you can't do
the quick mental math, like, yeah, don't use multiples of five.
Sure.
So it's like randomize it.
So it's like three or seven or like 12, I don't know.
I feel like this isn't something that would be all that much help for productivity anyway,
though.
Well, it's for time management, which is important to productivity.
If you know that you're a chronically late and sane person, which is what they called
it on the wait, but why article?
That's a really good article on time management, by the way.
Then you can more reliably be on time to things.
If you're always slightly unsure what time it actually is, but like, you know, approximately
what time it is.
What are some of the, you said at the beginning, like philosophies of productivity?
There's many of them.
And there are some really well known ones.
I think one of the most respected in the field, and it's, it's been around for a bit is called
getting things done.
It's by David Allen.
And they actually call it the GTD method, which is silly GTD short for getting things
done.
Yes.
Okay.
So you can expand it into this whole thing.
There's like websites.
You can, and it's a cool productivity system.
There's a book.
There's like a planner.
There's probably a million apps, I don't know.
But you can make it about as a simple or, you know, it's like, you can scale it up or
down depending on how much you like to organize things and get really like OCD about your productivity
systems, which I like to get pretty OCD about mine.
So the philosophy is mainly about like having planners to help you plan things out.
No, the philosophy is it's based on kind of a middle manager position, but you can also
kind of use it to be the middle manager of your life with a little creativity.
You want to capture, first of all, all of your incoming tasks.
So email, you know, like requests from friends.
First of all, he says, just like, get it all out of your brain and on paper somewhere
and in the same place, use a binder or use an app, write it down and keep them all in
the same place.
Don't organize them.
Just throw them on the list.
And then once everything is captured, then you stop stressing out about, am I going to
remember to do this thing or having that constant feeling of am I forgetting something?
Because you know that the minute you hear that you have a task, you just write it down.
It's captured.
That is genius.
I have a very busy coworker who does that.
She has like a con bon board across her entire desk of sticky notes.
So she knows, oh yeah, I had this and I'm sure there's three categories.
It's like urgent and then backlog and then whenever or something like that.
And she's also the agile coach at my work.
So that's exactly where she gets this idea from.
It sounds like there's a little bit of hybridization going on there with the con bon and with the
GTD method.
Totally.
But it was just the idea of making it in a physical place and maybe that's also helpful
to remember and stuff.
But also, like you said, get rid of the anxiety of not knowing if you're forgetting something.
Yeah.
And one of the important things was always having a notebook with you or having an app
on your phone.
I like to use Google Keep, which I'll talk more about because I love it.
And also not organizing it is important too because you want to...
You're not organizing it?
Yeah.
But people will experience some resistance too.
