That was more to just like, draw my memory of which ones I wanted to talk about.
Yeah.
They are distinct and I like that, too.
So what happens after you capture the tasks?
Then you sort them into, can I do it right now?
If so, like if you can do it in under five minutes, then you do it immediately.
And you know, is this something that I'm going to do later or is this something that I can
delegate?
So you look at it and you're like, okay, that's just the most basic tiers of organization
categorization.
So you do all your five minute tasks and you commit to doing the entire list of all the
tasks that are important enough for you to do.
And you delegate tasks that aren't good fits for tasks for you to do, either it's like
a buffer below your pay grade or somebody else could do it better than you.
And then you would save on opportunity cost.
And then there's another fourth category, which is the delete category.
So you look at a task and you're like, okay, I'm never going to get this done.
Or this isn't relevant anymore and then you delete it.
And that's basically getting things done.
The like really, really simplified version, but there's a very complicated like metagame
involved in getting things done.
When rationalists get involved, everything gets a complicated metagame, right?
It wasn't even rationalists.
This was David Allen, who was rationalist before was cool enough to have a term.
I mean, yeah.
Did you find a productivity bump doing these things?
When you started actively making an effort to be more productive?
Absolutely.
And I still use it.
I've modified my own version of it, which I think is a really important thing to do
with productivity tools again, because everybody works differently.
So what you do is there's all the philosophies, the books, et cetera, the tools.
You just, you try them out and well, first of all, you look at them and you think,
is this the sort of thing that I'm going to do?
Because the best productivity tool is the one that you are going to be able to do.
Some people love getting things done, like the super complicated version of it,
because they love super complicated things.
And that motivates them to actually like get a lot of work done because they,
it's actually kind of a game.
Yeah, it's like, it's, if it's fun for me, I like organizing all my things.
And then like feeling like I've made progress when I'm like clearing my task list
and I'm shifting like papers around in my head.
But some people hate that and they look at that and they go,
oh my God, that looks like so much work to get work done.
Like this is, you know, not something that would work for me.
So they need something simpler.
I can see that.
If it involves a lot of steps just to keep track of stuff,
I would have to add a task for do my tasking.
I make a joke about that at work.
We use an agile management tool called rally, which if you, if you use it deeply,
it can take seeming like half an hour a day,
which is not an insignificant chunk of time.
So I always joke that we should add that to our like our workload,
like add, do manage our workload to our workload.
Yeah.
I definitely want to try some of these.
So you don't, Inyash, you don't use any formal stuff,
but you, you somehow get things done.
Uh, yeah, you've been known to, I suppose.
Yeah, I haven't been known to.
So I'm trying to learn a lot from this episode because I have stuff coming up
that I want to be actually able to focus on and do.
Okay.
So I'm going to try and work together a technique for myself here.
It's, it's hard for me to give advice because I just, I mean, when,
one of the things I often tell myself,
like when I was doing the renovations in this house, I just look around.
I'm like, well, it's not going to renovate itself.
The only way things will move forward is if I physically move them forward.
So I got to do it because I want the end product.
You know, I don't know.
I, I mean, that has a real sense of urgency behind it.
Like if this isn't renovated, then you can't move in and you're just paying
for two places and you're, you know, that's true.
Yeah.
That, that sounds like there's enough motivation there that even I could get
off my ass to do it.
So like, um, you know, you wrote a book, you'd move to Starbucks every day
or most, what, five days a week for like a year.
Yeah, not quite a year, like nine months.
But like what kept you from saying, no, I'm going to take today off and do whatever.
Like I just, you wanted to do it.
Yeah, that, that, that was really it.
I mean, and the thing is there's lots of things that I do that I don't want to do.
Like when I do accounting for my boss, I don't, I don't really care, but after
a certain amount of just doing things, productivity starts to feel good in itself.
I think it's kind of like how, uh, if you're a runner, you running itself
just starts to feel good and people will, I mean, there's a wonderful, I think
it's the oatmeal.
Yeah.
The guy from the oatmeal is the runner.
He has this great comic about going on ultra marathons and by hour eight,
he thinks he's dying and he is in heaven, you know?
And once you start, get started doing lots of productive things in life, it
just feels better than video games or most other things.
And you just want to keep doing stuff.
But yeah, it is, it is important to do things you like.
Like a lot of people have asked me, I'm just going to, I might as well
announce this publicly because I've gotten a million emails saying, Hey,
are you ever going to do a podcast of, um, uh, significant digits?
The, the unofficial, yeah, sequel to, to Harry Potter methods of rationality.
And I've always answered the same way, uh, no, because it's, it's acknowledged
that it's good, but I don't feel passionate about it.
And doing these podcasts that the fiction ones anyway is about six to seven
hours of work per half hour episode.
And, and, you know, I don't get paid or anything.
So the only thing that drives me to do it is the passion.
And with Harry Potter, I had the passion for it because I love the story so much.
And significant digits is good, but I, it didn't ever spark that passion in me.
That would keep me doing it week after week for a year or a year and a half.
You know?
So I was like, I'm sorry, but, but no, it would, I would lose steam because I
don't, I don't have the enough of that.
And then whenever like I put out that, that online anthology I was just
talking about earlier, that was just like, I really want to see this in the world.
And it doesn't exist.
And by golly, it could exist if someone just sat down for one weekend and did it.
And so I did, you know?
But I do have the problem where it's really hard for me to get started on things,
even things that I love oftentimes.
I think what I'm hearing for myself so far is I'm going to try and do like a
hybrid thing because I, I don't know what my issue is.
I don't have a lot of passion lately for like, I don't know.
I've had sparks passion over like the last several years.
Like I'm passionate about things, but not like getting things done.
So I think I'll need a bit of a carrot and a stick for myself, which, you know,
like he said, accounting, you've got a carrot and a stick, you know,
pay jacks and homelessness.
So I think my, my ex-wife Melissa said this once and it really stuck with me.
She's like, everyone should have one thing that makes them awesome that like,
you know, all their other friends are like, that's the cool thing you do.
And she was like, and for you, that's your podcast.
And I was like, yeah.
And that, that was the motivating factor for me, you know,
and everyone has something that makes them awesome.
Yeah, it's good for your self-esteem.
And so it sounds like what you're talking about.
There is another productivity system.
I would say it falls into the philosophy called the procrastination equation.
What you're describing in the eyes as being a motivating factor for you is value.
And a lot of people, though, I think like particularly rationalists,
there's some debate about whether or not this is true of everyone or rationalists
are particularly bad at this and just good at noticing it.
But there's the issue of a crazier.
Should I define that?
Sure. Yeah.
I should have looked up a definition.
But a crazier is delay or feeling resistance towards doing a task.
Like you want to do a task, you know, you should do the task, you need to do the task.
And for some reason, you just can't motivate yourself to do it.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Yeah. Like wanting to write a book and like, you know,
being really passionate about like the ideas and the characters in the book.
And then just like just not doing it.
Yeah. Or just like more broadly knowing what the right thing to do is and doing the wrong thing.
I had a bowl of cocoa.
I had a bowl of cocoa puffs for dinner, probably the wrong choice, right?
I don't know if that falls into a crazier, but that actually relates to the procrastination equation.
Sure.
So this is a book by Pierce Steele.
And the subtitle is How to Stop Putting Things Off and Get Stuff Done.
And there's a whole book and it's worth reading the whole book
because it gives you this really good breakdown of this very simple equation,
which is expectancy times value over impulsiveness times delay.
And someone also did a book review and went into deeper detail
on the less wrong website about the procrastination equation.
I believe there's two articles and we can link to them because that's how I found out about it.
So each of these, what are the each of these things mean?
Expectancy is how, you know, your gut reaction.
Can I do this?
Is this something that like is in my, you know, skill set?
Am I capable of doing this?
So you have high expectancy if it's a task.
Like, you know, a routine task you do every day at your work, you can practically do on autopilot.
You're not going to experience much resistance when you think about that because you're like, oh, yeah, that's easy.
But if it's like somebody has assigned you a task and you know, you're going to have to do a lot of research
and you're not sure if you can do it, you have like, actually, I'm not sure if higher low expectancies.
Well, I would say low expectancy.
I'm being able to do that task that causes anxiety and that causes you to procrastinate doing it
because thinking about it gives you a fields, which is another term.
That just means the like feeling of dread that you get or the feeling of like apathy or just badness
that makes you, oh, I should do this task.
And then your brain deletes it because your brain doesn't like feeling those unhappy feelings.
I have so much of that for my second novel.
The fields.
I know I should start it.
That's they always say the best thing you can do after you finish your first novel, start your second one.
But like, oh, my God, I don't know if I can pull this off.
It's going to be hard and there's going to be all it's sounds like expectancy.
Yes.
So value in the equation is obviously how much you value the thing.
You have the passion for it or you don't.
So you might get a lot of work done at your job that you don't give a shit about
because it's just like, I don't know, something that's not really helping the world
or that you don't personally feel passionate about.
But you have to get it done because you need to make money
and your boss is watching you and all your coworkers are judging you.
So you, you, you know, go into work and you crunch a bunch of numbers
and you do whatever it is that you do and you don't work on your novel,
