Yeah.
All right.
Well, yeah, but it might be able to digest like it's lower half and then turn itself
inside out.
I'm sorry for bringing it up.
Okay.
He also more than a male who we are going to have on the episode again at some point.
Totally.
We had him on once and it was Matt Freeman.
He had the migraine.
I had to leave halfway through, but he's got a lot of cool shit to say.
We should have him back.
And also says under the heading fuck school.
If you take this Malcolm Gladwell article at face value and he links an article and read
between the lines, then getting into a good college and networking may do nothing or be
worse than useless.
He discusses how if you compare Harvard graduates with students who are accepted to Harvard,
but chose to go to state schools for other reasons, their life outcomes are the same.
In other words, Harvard gives you no advantages.
It doesn't improve its students.
It just selects for the type of person who can get into Harvard.
I guess I'd have to read the proper thing, but how would networking hurt there?
I don't think it would hurt.
I guess it just wouldn't help.
But if you're going to Harvard instead of a state school, you are probably paying a lot
of money.
That too.
Well, somebody is.
That can hurt.
That's true.
I mean, if your parents are really well off, then it probably doesn't matter that much.
Yeah.
But I've got to think that you'd meet business friends in Harvard where we wouldn't meet them
at your community college or something.
Maybe they're not higher quality business.
Maybe you've run into the Donald Trumps that just keep declaring bankruptcy.
Yeah.
Not without incident says, this is the second time Enesh conflated David Lynch with David
Fincher boycott the podcast.
My reply is no.
I'm sorry.
They're the same person.
I swear.
That's why you've never seen the two of them in a room together.
But no, I apologize.
That is inexcusable of me and I will start drilling with flashcards and something.
David Lynch is the director.
Who's David Fincher?
Also a director.
Oh, yeah.
They might be the same person.
M.K.
I.
M.
Cow.
A person who's I'm assuming this is a bunch of initials.
M.K.
I.
W.W.
Says good people relinquish their autonomy to systems, but good systems don't exploit
people unnecessarily.
Seems like a valued moral in our current society.
I think this is when we were talking about the movie.
Oh, yeah.
And how?
Yeah.
The kids get kicked out of the family and then come crawling back instead of, you know,
developing.
Oh, that upset me because I think Coco was the specific movie.
Yeah.
And I really loved Coco.
Okay.
And I thought about it and I was like, oh, yeah, that's that is actually a really valid
criticism of that film.
Oh, do you not love Coco as much now?
No, I still enjoy it.
I can have, you know, I can think something is problematic and still enjoy them.
Yeah.
I think, you know, this is a good point.
And I was when we were talking about the super organisms just a little bit ago, that's basically
how they work, right?
Good people do relinquish some autonomy to systems so that the systems work.
But if they're good systems, they don't exploit them unnecessarily.
And I think that that probably is a valued moral in our society because that is one of
the ways that society gets to where it is.
We drill those morals into people so that we do have these functioning super organisms.
Yeah, you need some kind of coordination mechanism.
Yeah.
You also got to make sure the system doesn't get too abusive, like the fucking old Soviet
bureaucracies that would kill people.
Yeah, you need just the right balance.
Yeah, you don't want to cult type atmosphere either.
Maybe you don't.
No, I don't.
I don't think anybody does.
I guess a cult in the God, it's that is such a loaded word.
You don't want the abusive leadership and coercive sort of social atmosphere that some cults
have.
I think that's what people usually mean when they say cults are bad.
Yeah, I think that's fairly unobjectionable.
Because I mean, for the most part, I'm like people can have whatever religion you want.
You can have stupid weird beliefs and live in a commune and be make it all the time.
I don't care.
It's just the.
If it makes you happy and you're hurting nobody.
Yeah.
Besides maybe, I don't know, you can hurt yourself if you want.
That's fine.
Right.
Like, yeah, I don't know.
I remember a lot of people had objections about less wrong in the rationality community
that it was cult like.
Yeah.
And yeah, one of the members of my local Western group in Philadelphia was a cult survivor
and had like studied cults.
And I asked him, because I was under the impression that there was like a list.
I don't know where I got this idea, but there was like a specific definition of what a cult
was and it had to meet certain criteria.
There was a list.
Apparently, that's not true.
So you like, there's kind of a nebulous definition of what a cult is.
Yeah.
I think that would be any list would be suspect, right?
Cause I mean, unless they're going to include everything that has all the, all the symptoms.
Like if they include Scientology, but don't include Mormonism, I'm wondering how they're
doing their calculus there.
Is it just like subscription level?
Is it.
When the Scientology versus Mormonism thing, I'm pretty sure it's just a level of Mormonism.
There's enough of them now that they have political power so they can.
People are like, okay, fine.
They're not a cult because we don't want to piss off the powerful people who have a lot
of followers.
Right.
But then that seems like a weird like caveat.
It wasn't on a list of cults.
It was a list of like, you know, like in the DSM, for example, a list of symptoms that
if you have a certain number of them, you probably have ADD or whatever.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But anyway, I think I'm like made that up anyway.
I don't think that really exists.
What did your friend say when you asked him about the whole cult aspect?
Um, he like explained a lot of things about cults and just, you know, my takeaway was just
that this is very complicated and I don't think I can understand this from one conversation.
I would have to actually study it.
There's a lot of different factors involved in what makes a cult like be a cult and not
other kinds of communities or other kinds of like systems that might look kind of dysfunctional
from a distance, but like not be as bad.
I don't know.
Was there a conclusion that the rationality community was a cult like or did they say,
fuck no, this was nothing like what I went?
No, he disagreed.
I like it was disagreement all around people laughing like kind of dismissal.
That would be sort of my takeaway just from what I imagine cults being like.
I mean, if we're a cult, we are one of the most anti-cults with the most anti-cult measures
in place of any cult out there.
There's been any kidnappings yet.
We're actually kind of like bad at coordinating and getting people to like join.
Cause like people actually say, was that too cult like, let's not do that.
You know, it's like, no, we're just having a barbecue.
Damn it.
But there is the fear.
I think there's a lot of people do have that background in religious fundamentalism.
Yeah.
And I'm a lot of rationalists are very high openness and high like a trust.
And so I know a lot of people that like have gotten scammed.
Well, I don't know them personally.
I've heard of them because they trusted people at their word.
That doesn't sound like the right kind of rationalist.
Then I'm thinking much more professor coral style or having read an influence science and practice or something.
I don't think there's honestly, I don't think there's that many of that kind of person in the rationalist movement.
I mean, I'm sure there's got to be some, but.
I think that's the aspirational figure.
Yeah.
Most people that I think maybe that's why we love the coral figure so much because he's like,
this is the person I could be if I wasn't such a naive boob trusting everyone.
Well, that's how I feel.
Cause I'm a naive boob.
Speaking of admiring people, though, I think that's one of the one of the concerns.
Like with Elie Izer Yutkowski is pretty charismatic and engaging.
People read the stuff and got swept up in it.
And you know, that's, that's when you just described that, that sounds culty.
That also sounds like a fandom.
Yeah.
Fandoms sometimes sound culty.
They do have a lot more hostility and aggressiveness occasionally.
Oh yeah, I've been in fandoms.
Yeah.
There's a, yeah.
I'm not going to tell stories now.
Fandoms can be the worst.
Can you tell a story that's anonymized so people aren't like hurt?
I can tell a vague like overview of the fact that there's a lot of people that form their entire community around certain fandoms.
Like all of their friends, everybody was dating each other.
They like moved in together and then there would be drama inevitably.
And it would just like, and a lot of the drama would end up being over like social justice things or like disagreements about like canon and just like, I don't know.
It was weird because like when people are, when people are so into a thing and that's like, you know, they love that thing and they make their life about that thing.
That's really cool for a while.
