Like if it was between like the bed and the door, that'd be super annoying.
But I was curious, like, what does it actually take to fix this?
And it turns out it's kind of annoying.
Yeah, if you have carpet down, it's going to be a problem.
Right. And so it was just enough to say, you know what, why would we sit
and speculate about this when we can just look at this up really quick?
Found a four minute video on YouTube and I was like, oh, yeah, screw that.
It was basically this guy was like drilling a bunch of random holes to see
if he could find the part where the joint was, like where the part where the
wood was squeaky and then use these special screws from this kit that you
can buy for cheap and then you drill those in there and then you break off the
top of this, the, the screw, uh, what you're left with is a floor with a bunch
of holes in it and presumably underneath the carpet, probably not all the way
into the wood part of a screw sticking out.
That's weird because maybe that's the shittiest way to do it.
That's the first way I found.
Yeah.
I don't know why you would break the head.
Maybe it's, yeah, generally you don't need to break the head off.
You just screw the screw in all the way down.
Maybe this was a way to like not get caught in the carpet or something too.
I'm not really, there was some,
or maybe you could putty it over so you didn't see the hole anymore afterwards.
Oh, was this, if you don't take the carpet up?
Yeah.
This was if you don't take the carpet up.
Okay.
Yeah.
Then you, I guess you would have to break off the, the head.
Yeah.
And I don't want to take the carpet up because well, I guess I could also look
up how do you put carpet back down?
Maybe that's not that hard.
So it is a little bit hard.
Okay.
I have a tool for you.
There's the, the value of time calculator, which is on clear thinking.org.
They have a bunch of tools.
I highly recommend all of them.
But this is a way that you can actually calculate how much your time is worth to
you.
And then you can, for example, watch that YouTube video, calculate how many hours
do I think that this will take me to do approximately, you know, what an hour of
your time is worth now.
So you can say, okay, it's going to cost this much to do this.
Should I do this or should I pay someone to do this for me?
Yeah.
Obviously you have to have money.
Like even if you have like, you know, very low income though, it still is going
to calculate how much you value your time.
The more money you make, you know, the more it makes sense to delegate tasks to
others, the less money that you make, the more sense it makes to do stuff on your
own.
Yeah, that would be, you know, getting things done.
That would be a task that you probably wouldn't delegate to a professional who
could do it more efficiently, faster, you know, more reliably than you.
It's also how much I care about the problem.
And yeah, and for the most part, I agree.
But there are certain tangible benefits to doing things yourself.
Like it's fun.
Absolutely.
You learn how to do it.
And afterwards you feel proud.
Like, how I did this myself and yeah, we did, we've done some minor improvements,
mainly painting and stuff.
And there's the sense of accomplishment that you get when you look around and be
like, this looks better because of us.
Yeah.
But yeah, totally.
Um, like there was a, I had an issue with my recognition that I thought about
getting fixed this summer and I looked into like how hard would this be to, how
hard would this be to do myself?
Oh, not that easy.
And then it looked into like how much it would cost to get somebody to do it.
And I was like, I can wait till next year.
But, um, but yeah, that exact same sort of thing comes up.
And if it turned out that I could do it as easy as charging a car recognition or
something, that'd be fine.
Um, but it turned out to be a bit more complicated and possibly legal.
I never figured that out.
If you can charge your own air, if you're, if you can charge your own legal hair,
if you can charge your own home air conditioners, cause Freon's, uh,
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
There's always the flip side too of a, Hey, I tried to do this thing and I did it
successfully and I feel great and I'm happy where it is.
I tried to do this thing.
I thought it would take three hours.
It has taken me nine hours.
I think I broke it.
I feel terrible about myself and my decisions.
So, uh, you have to kind of like, you know, weigh that as well.
It's always worth looking up though, cause some things that you think would be
really hard are actually surprisingly easy.
Oh, it's absolutely always worth looking at it unless you're really rich
and you just don't care.
Right.
Yeah.
If you got tons of money, we, I think I should point out that we are two hours
and 15 minutes here.
So we should probably wrap up soon.
Wow.
I mean, I do it at some point soon too.
So how long are you in town and when are you moving here?
Um, I am leaving tomorrow, but I'm hoping to come back in a few weeks.
Okay.
I don't know if it's going to, you know, how long it's going to take to deal
with insurance, people quit my job and say goodbye to everybody.
Totally.
Pack my stuff, but I want to, I want to go fast.
Well, I'd love to do this again and hang out when you get down here.
Yeah, we can do a part two and I can actually come prepared because I feel
like I barely covered anything that was in my head earlier.
Well, we could do a part two for this than a part one and two for the gender
episode.
We could do more stuff.
I feel like, I guess I've had a lot of fun hanging out and talking and we
could do more of that.
So, yeah, I'm really glad I decided to do this.
Uh, I'm running on no sleep and I felt really like low expectancy
that I was going to come off coherent or have a good time.
And, uh, that's why I'm here to make our guests look good.
If I sound like I'm out doing, yeah.
Uh, so we are going to have to call the episode here because we are running
over as it is, but we may come back and do an episode part two when you
can move here.
Oh yeah, great.
I feel like I barely covered any of the ones I wanted to talk about.
So I'll come more prepared with the whole list of, let's do.
Thanks to the, uh, our music people again.
Yeah.
Thank you to the people who provided music in this podcast, David
Gweer and Samiriki Keeper.
You guys rock.
Hell yeah.
Everyone, everyone received a lot of positive feedback for the, uh, for the
new music, including requests to go back and change the old music, which
unfortunately will never happen because none of us have the original sound
files anymore.
So it would be this horrible choppy mess.
So that'll be a testament to it's never too late to improve.
And even if we did have the sound files, that's like five, 10 minutes per
episode to do it.
And I just, I'm not going to spend 600 minutes fixing that.
That's fair.
Yeah.
Okay.
Uh, we have our Patreon supporter to thank.
Uh, thank you this week to Zachary Olpin.
Thanks Zachary for the bomb.
Yeah.
Thanks Zach.
We really appreciate it.
The reason we can do this is because of people like you helping us out.
Totally.
And finally, we would also like to thank Jess, who is, was our guest today for
providing the art that we use for our podcast.
That's where that came from.
Oh yeah.
Oh no way.
Yeah.
I'd love to do more art for you guys.
I remember we decided it came from a study named Jess.
So you guys have been in touch for a while then.
Okay.
See, I thought that this was, that you just found the local group on Facebook
because you were coming to Denver.
We've been talking for like years, right?
I think, yeah, like a year and a half, maybe two years now.
That is so cool.
Thank you so much.
I meant to ask you about that because there's no attribution on the website or
anything.
No, there, there is.
All.
Oh, but not like, oh, you're right.
It's not anywhere very visible.
That's also my fault because I don't have a website with my art on it or anything.
Like I'm, I'm a terrible freelance graphics designer and I just like use my email.
Well, I love the logo.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, I can put the logo and thank you properly.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
And again, um, you know, hit me up.
If you need art, I will do volunteer art for rationalist things.
I, you know, I did the Harvard effective altruist one and, uh,
And she did ours totally for free.
She was just like, here's the thing I like.
Donate money to you guys or I would have, you know, I think I'd give you a bit,
but I don't have very much.
So I was like, I'm, you know, happy for anything I can do to contribute
because I get a lot of value out of listening to this podcast.
Oh, well, thank you for that too.
But, uh, I, I love the art.
I, I've loved it the whole time and it looks great.
So, um, that is the one thing that never needed updating.
You know, the, we needed a better itinerary for how we handle the episodes.
We needed a different format.
