Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy.
I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a special guest.
Hi, I'm Jess.
Hello, Jess.
And we are going to...
Well, we're going to talk about things, but we have not done any listener feedback for like four episodes now
because we keep getting, you know, too into the topic and running out of time.
So this week, we are going to do listener feedback right off the top.
So we definitely will not run out of time on that.
Solid strategy.
Did you want to start or should I pull one up?
Yeah, I've got a quick one here from Kai.
They wrote in on May 29th, and I feel like it's been unconsciously long to reply.
Basically, it was when we had an Audrey on for the teacher episode.
They said, hi, I'm Kai.
Upon listening to your recent episode about education, I found your guest's characterization of home education to be unfair and un-nuanced.
And as I've been home educated from the age of five, I thought you might be interested in having me on to discuss what it's actually like.
One, sorry if it was unfair and uncharacteristic or un-nuanced.
I imagine maybe there's a bias from like in-school teachers against homeschooling teachers.
I'm assuming there is.
There probably is.
It's the direct competition.
Yeah, they don't know how they're doing, how to do things right.
Yeah, they would probably say no.
There's no way that they could do it right there because we're all, you know, establishment stuff or whatever.
They may also have only been familiar with like, I hate to say it, but like religious home education.
Right.
It's not like unschooling or any of the...
I think she also said specifically that she gets the kids who failed at home education because their parents sucked so bad that they had to get put into the system afterwards.
Oh yeah, and that's the worst sampling bias ever.
Right.
She doesn't see any of the kids that had like the good outcomes from homeschooling.
And the only homeschooling I had ever seen in real life up until I met Max Harms was the nutty, religious kind where literally the multiple choice questions were like, how old is the earth?
10,000 years old is the correct answer.
It turns out that the cheapest for reasons that I'm sure are very intentional.
Because church subsidizes it.
Exactly.
Yeah, and there is some good religious like homeschooling.
I didn't mean to be mean.
We'd like being mean to religion as we discussed in the last podcast.
I'm okay with that too.
So yeah, I don't know.
I'm happy to talk about it more.
You're welcome to write in more or I was thinking too of doing a thing.
I was going to announce in this episode anyway where I thought it'd be fun if anyone who wants to write in stuff.
I put on a sticky thread on the subreddit.
If anyone can write in a random question or if you want, you can email us a 30 second, 90 second, maybe max sound bite.
Try and make it need as little editing as possible, but you can just record it on your phone and, you know, clip it and send us the MP3.
And then we can play that and respond to it on the episode.
Yeah, that would be pretty neat.
Cool.
All right, thanks.
In response to God, and I don't know what episode it was, but he said that
Our culture has failed to teach what activities bring meaning.
And I think that's partly because our cultures and denial about what kind of animal we are.
We tend to conflate moral actions shoulds with actions that bring meaning.
When we as animals don't naturally feel anything about what is moral in the abstract.
We seem to get meaning mostly from visible immediate positive reactions from other humans.
It's God, that's so fucking true too.
I love performing in front of other people because you get that feedback right away.
It's difficult for us to glean lasting meaning from abstract activities like donating to malaria charities.
Difficult to feel much satisfaction about a project we complete that nobody else will ever see.
And difficult to care about achieving things that don't on some level play into some kind of Hansonian status game.
On the other hand, it's pretty easy to feel meaningfulness in helping a friend move or giving a meal to homeless person,
even if those are transient actions that are utterly meaningless from a cosmic viewpoint.
You're an animal evolved for reciprocal altruism in a small band of mostly blood relatives
and your inner meaning detector doesn't really care about the cosmic viewpoint.
And yeah, that's true. I think that's very good to acknowledge.
I wish there was some way to hack that.
Yeah, I do too.
Because I've been really more and more coming to the conclusion lately
that I need to just be around people that I like in the physical world more, you know?
Because that is where I find I am happiest when I'm helping them and we are all together as a group
or as doing things which are supposedly meaningful does not seem to work.
This is probably why people have kids.
They're forced to live with you for however many years.
I sort of reject all of the nefarious motivations people have, why people have kids.
I think they do it because it is supernatural to them, right?
It really refers to that. It is very natural to them.
And it's just something they do often without giving that much thought.
It's like, I feel like I should mate now, you know?
Speaking of which, I just found out today I'm going to be uncle.
Nice, congratulations.
Yeah, unfortunately it's my sister.
But on the plus side, the dad is pretty cool.
And maybe the kid will come up to me whenever he's having issues with his mom.
She's like, she's crazy, man.
Let me tell you all about this cool rationality thing.
Also, God doesn't exist.
Or you could just be the cool uncle.
That is what the cool uncle does, right?
Sure.
Dammit, am I going to be the lame uncle?
No.
Tell dirty jokes, too.
Yeah, I think it's more like giving them candy and letting them stay up late.
Oh, I'm not sure I would give them candy.
I don't want to poison my children, but I would let them stay up late.
I mean, my nieces and nephews.
Candy is not poison.
Yeah, candy is totally poison.
Yeah, that's how we all eat it all the time and don't die.
It's basically poison, which is why I don't eat it and don't die.
The rest of us.
Yeah, we're all just dropping dead in the streets.
Yeah, there's like a dose mix, the poison roll.
I am firmly on the side of candy is bad.
That's a very less objectionable statement.
It is a good juristic, I guess.
Yeah, I've been an uncle since the middle of May, and it's great.
Cool.
Like she's already making noises other than crying.
Yeah.
Oh, like pre-speech sounds?
Yeah.
That's so cool.
At first it was just ooze, but it was fun.
You know, she's, I don't know, over 10, 11 pounds now.
Her first word is going to be Steven and they're going to be so jealous.
I don't see that much, but we'll see.
How often do you see her?
I haven't, I've only seen her once since my sister was out of the hospital.
So, but I saw her a bunch when she was in there, so.
Yeah.
But I mean, that was at the point where she was barely making eye contact.
She was just like looking towards stuff.
Now she can look at things and she can track things with her eyes.
Okay.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She's starting to understand that these sensory inputs coming into her eyes relate to things
in the world.
Yeah, I think that's coming.
God, that's got to be so fucking weird.
Your brain just gets bombarded with stimuli and you have no idea what's happening.
No wonder they're crying all the time.
Yeah.
Yeah, kids develop so fast though.
It's scary.
I work in a library and there's a lot of little kids there who like, I feel like I will see
them and it's just my sense of time is weird too when I'm really busy, but I feel like
I'll see them and like then like I'll see them again in a little bit and it's like,
oh, they were a baby and now they're a human.
They're wearing clothes.
They're walking.
They can talk or they can make speech sounds and point to things and like it's like, whoa,
complete metamorphosis.
And it felt like no time had passed.
It's really scary, but really fascinating.
I find the weirdest part how the brain does figure out these inputs coming from your eyes
are objects.
Yeah.
I mean, at some level that probably happens.
I mean, it's got to happen in the first few weeks, right?
Well, I mean, yeah, and in our ancestors and our distant cousins, it happens immediately
without any real conscious thought.
There was a gift on Reddit last week of some lizard that came out of an egg, like it hatched
and then did a sprint and like landed around this guy's hand and stood on the finger or
something.
Like it was born running and ready to rock.
And then there was that what planet Earth volume two last year or the year before.
Well, humans are basically born like two months premature, right?
Oh yeah.
We need so much more growing once we're out of the womb, but there's a lot of species
that are just like miniature versions of the adult.
Yeah.
That like you just have to get ejected from the body otherwise you wouldn't ever fit through
the hips.
Oh, totally.
But there was that some desert lizard or something and it was born and it's like, oh, shit,
what am I?
What's going on?
And then snakes.
You saw this video on, oh, it was great.
I'll find either the gift that has those funny captions or the actual video.
The video is very stressful, but it gets okay.
Oh, cool.
Yeah.
Spoilers?
Jesus.
He dies.
I'm glad that was spoiled because I might not have wanted to watch the video if it was
sad ending.
Yeah.
And I it would have been way less fun.
I wouldn't be excited if it died tragically after being alive for three minutes to be
terrible.
The most horrifying video I've ever seen someone sent this video that was like, wow, watch
this.
And it was a snake and it was the like Ouroboros snake that was literally eating itself due
to stress.
Oh, wow.
Don't watch it.
Pass.
I'm kind of curious what happens.
I don't know because I stopped watching it.
I was so disturbed.
I checked it out.
I'd probably just get really tight and stuck.
