It's a, it's a cookie clicker game.
Okay.
You're also paid that, also played that paperclip maximizer one.
Yes, but that one actually ends.
You can beat that game in like a matter of two hours.
Oh, so you take over the universe.
It's like kind of educational.
I'm not going to spoil it for you.
Well, I'll just go in there.
If it's anything like cookie clicker, you get an achievement for going into like opening
console commands and changing the JavaScripts to give yourself infinite resources.
I don't think you get achievements for that in this one, but again, I don't have to because
you mean it.
I can read it in 30 seconds as I'm saying.
So you can just talk about how it ends.
Okay.
I guess you could.
If you're a cheater.
All right.
You don't have to tell me.
I'll just do it.
The guy who made the paperclip maximizer game was at the Solstice Unconference and he did
a whole talk on game design and it was really good.
Oh, that's awesome.
That's really cool.
Yeah.
Sorry for the aside, but I wish it had been filmed.
Maybe somebody has like a cell phone video of it.
I don't think so though.
I don't think anyone was doing that.
It's a shame that that doesn't exist somewhere that everyone can watch it though.
Yeah.
Well, maybe he'll give the talk again someday.
Yeah.
I think so.
Yeah, I remember when that game came out, it like got covered on wired and a whole bunch
of places.
Everyone was just like, this is a really cool game.
I apparently live under a rock.
So.
Well, you never check Facebook, which is where I get a lot of my link shares and where I
share links.
Yeah, but not checking Facebook is also probably smart.
It's probably one of the best productivity hacks.
Don't have Facebook.
Speaking of productivity hacks slash systems, iOS 12, which comes out for iPhone and September-ish
this fall, is going to have some limitations you can set for yourself.
Kind of like one of the tools that's going to bring up, which was.
Freedom.
Is that the one where you block certain social media sites from yourself on your browser?
There's a lot of them.
I think freedom is one of the biggest ones, where rescue time is another one.
Rescue time is one I was thinking of.
And that's where you can allot yourself some amount of time to be on Facebook or something,
right?
Yeah, or any site.
Yeah, but I think people use it to get rid of their social media addictions.
Anyway, they'll have that for your new iOS.
Excellent.
Not mine.
I have an Android.
Oh, yeah.
You have some other bizarre phone.
It's an Android.
I'm not that bizarre.
Well, last year you had that old, like.
Oh, that was just an ancient Android.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
So I'm the only Apple nerd in here, which at this point it is like sticking with a cult.
Right now it is just sort of sunk cost.
Today's word is cult.
Their MacBook suite of products is still very good.
Kind of.
They apparently got a lot of returns in their brand new MacBooks because they couldn't reach
the powers or the speeds of their advertising.
I still corrected.
But the other thing too is that my MacBook that I got two years ago, I guess it was a
2015 MacBook, is pretty antiquated for what I'd like to do just as mobile development.
Oh, well, that just happens within a few years, though.
2015 is three and a half years ago now.
Yeah, well, but I got it two years ago.
It was last year's model two years ago.
But the thing is was like Windows machines let you update them.
Yeah, but if you update them too much like an older machine, you can't put Windows 10
on it.
It won't work.
That was why my ancient Android phone was such a piece of shit because they pushed the
updates automatically and I just couldn't run anything anymore.
I'm like, why can't I just have the same thing that I bought without all the fancy
new bells?
Well, on the plus side for PCs, if you buy a copy of Word 2001 on a CD and put it into
your computer, it'll still work.
Apple just does breaking changes every four years.
For the most part, your hardware is completely useless by then, too.
But that said, I've got the whole Apple ecosystem at home, so getting out of it would cost me
$6,000.
That's how they get you.
Exactly, and they've got me good.
So now I'm just a happy Stockholm Syndrome subject here.
It's probably better back when Jobs was at the wheel and things were still working very
well.
That's what people say, I think.
Although he was apparently a really weird dude with park and handicap spots and stuff
and make a show of it, well, the thing is when you're billionaire, you can have a driver
take you to work or pay somebody to park your car, but I think he was just this weird power
trippy dude.
Some people got to leave subs in Argentina or Venezuela or wherever the hell it was.
Once you hit the B, maybe that's just what happens, a billion.
It's weird because he was a very effective company leader based on how aggressive he
was, but he traumatized a lot of his employees.
Yeah, like Bezos apparently too.
Jeff Bezos from, Jeff, is that the first name?
No, I'm feeling not confident.
I believe it is Jeff from Amazon though.
His last name is definitely Bezos.
He is apparently just a complete psycho to work under, and I don't know if I've thrown
the word psycho around twice, I mean asshole.
So yeah, he screams at meetings, berates people, but Amazon's wicked successful.
So what can you do?
I think there's a CEO class the same way that there is like a warrior class that you have
to kind of learn to control, but maybe is still useful.
It's a warrior in a business suit.
So yes, hacking or productivity tools.
So I don't need one to keep me off of social media, although I'll probably use it to keep
me off of Reddit if I ever decide to use it for something, assuming that fucking, because
the other thing about Apple, sorry I'll get off this in a second, they don't let you
customize anything.
No, that's why.
I don't know if it'll let me use, if it'll let me connect it to a third-party app, because
I use Apollo for...
Yeah, everything has to be within their silo.
Right, and Facebook comes on new phones, whereas Apollo doesn't, because it's a single developer
making this app, which if you read it on your phone, use Apollo.
The person who made it is amazing, they're active on the subreddit.
So what is Apollo?
It's a Reddit client for iPhone, so it's an app, but it's way better than the Reddit
app for iPhone, and the guy is super fun and awesome, and he does this all himself.
I just keep fucking going to the website, and he keeps telling me, hey, use our app,
and I'm like, no, I like the website, just fine, thank you.
Oh, I hate when websites do that.
I don't have the Facebook app, and I'm not getting it back, and I wish I could tell
it to please stop telling me to get the app.
Yeah, I have all the apps, because I'm lazy.
But still, I'm gonna shill for Apollo.
I donate, I don't know, once every few months.
Oh, you like it that much?
I bought the full version, it's like three bucks, and it comes with full functionality.
I know I'm totally shilling for this, I'm not the creator.
It's okay to promote things that you think are useful.
Yeah, I know, but now it's been, we're not on productivity at all.
Soon it'll get me back to productivity.
Honestly, we should just beep out the name every time and contact the guy and be like,
we will un-beep the name of your product, which Stephen loves so much for just $100.
Yeah, we could get some sidebar ads.
Anyway, I just love that this is the work of one person who dedicates a lot of time
to doing this, and the app is crazy popular.
Anyway, that's my shill.
Apollo for iPhone, for Reddit.
Cool, okay, sorry.
Productivity systems, I am thinking that we could probably talk about them
in like three different categories.
There's productivity systems in the sense that there are books and philosophies
about how you do productivity.
There are actual tools, like I would say like Tomato Timer,
like a tool that you can use, like an app that you can download.
And then there are hacks, which are kind of a weird gray area.
And like more about like, you know, doing things like tricking your brain.
Is the Tomato Timer the Pomodoro Technique?
Yes.
Oh, okay.
Why did you call it Tomato Timer?
Oh, that's what it's called.
That was called the Pomodoro Technique.
No, I mean, there's a website.
Oh, call it Tomato Timer?
Yeah, well, if I'm going to promote something, there's the website.
If you just Google Tomato Timer, you'll find it, and it's just a web app that does Pomodoro's.
It's really minimalist.
And it's the only one that I've been using because I don't need anything more than what
it does.
We should tell people briefly what it is.
Yes.
Oh, I've just found out I've been pronouncing the word wrong, but I'm going to keep doing
it the same way because I'm going to break my tongue if I try to do the Italian pronunciation.
Pomodoro's, I already did it, are a system where you focus for about 20 minutes and you
can adjust it.
But like that's kind of the one that everyone has found really optimal, like 20, 25 minutes.
And then you have five minutes off.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
I've done, yeah.
There's one someone at work who has a big clock that he like drags the minute hands
to and it counts down.
Oh, it's cool that he has a physical clock.
Yeah.
And so it's like, it's impossible to miss on his desk.
It's like half the size of his monitor.
And so when it goes down, he gets up and he, he, you know, looks away and distracts himself
for a minute.
