Then he gets back to work after five minutes.
We should probably quickly tell people it's called that Pomodoro, Pomodoro, now, now you
have me really worried about how he's pronouncing the tomato.
It's the Italian word for tomato.
And because it is based on an old cooking timer that's shaped like a tomato.
Yeah.
It looks just like a tomato.
You twist it.
It has a 25.
It's either 20 or 25 minutes.
That is the default setting.
I forget if it's 20 or 25.
Yeah.
And then you just work until it counts down.
It goes ding.
And then you get up and you do stuff for five minutes and you come back and you twist it
again and you do that all day.
And yeah, that's, that's what they named it after.
And yeah, a lot of people do swear by it.
I never, ever tried it because I think that would ruin everything for me.
I tend to, me personally, if I get into a project, I will like sit down and just be
in that project for hours to the point where like, I'm like, oh shit, I got to go and eat
now because I'm really hungry.
But if I would like had a ding that told me that I had to get up and break my focus
on a project, I would be really pissed off.
Apparently it actually, I mean, maybe, you know, everybody's different and that's like
a really important thing to know about productivity tools and hacks and et cetera, is that everybody's
brains are motivated different.
But if you're doing focused work for hours, you actually start like experiencing loss
in terms of your ability to focus, whether you're focusing on the right things.
And it's kind of like, you know, sleep deprivation where people all when they test them, they
all say that they feel like they're performing at 100% capacity when they've had six hours
of sleep, but you actually test them and they are not.
And I think it's the same thing where you feel like I'm really focused on in the zone.
I can't like break away from this, but actually you perform better if you do take those five
minute breaks.
I should probably give it a try, at least.
At least give it a try.
Okay.
If you hate it, don't use it.
I saw something like that on Reddit recently where it was, I think we did a study of nurses
on specifically what you just mentioned about how their performance tanks, if they fit up
for too long or didn't get enough sleep, but their self-assessment of the performance
stays consistent, which is kind of scary.
They're not aware that they're doing so much worse.
And this was just on nurses, but that's true with everybody, right?
So if you stay up late and you're like right now, I feel like I'm doing pretty okay, but
I'm a little more tired than average.
And so like, I'm probably doing worse.
And yet if you ask me how am I doing, that's like, I think I'm probably at 95%, right?
So my greatest obstacle personally to productivity is getting started.
Like getting started can take me a half hour to an hour, which is why once I get started,
I am so happy and I just keep going.
And then if like I were to stop and take a break, it takes me another half hour to get
started again.
And I just, I can't do the five minute thing.
It's the startup time that is the worst for me.
Five minutes is like enough time to give yourself that mental break that refreshes you and helps
you perform more optimally, but it's not enough that you're going to lose your focus if you
were really intently writing something.
Five minutes is just like, you take a breather, you take a drink of water.
It's still in your mind and you can pick up where you left off, at least in my experience.
And I think that's like why they chose that time interval.
I think I'm in the middle and I'll try it and see how it works.
I'll set timers.
Why not?
I'll do it tomorrow.
Well, tomorrow will be atypical.
I'm planning on being extra alert tomorrow, but because if I'm in the middle of something,
my brain is kind of handling a bunch of things at once.
I'm like, okay, now that I'm doing this, I can go grab this, I can, you know, I'm getting
all these dominoes in a row.
And if someone comes down to my desk and it's like, Hey, Steven, can I do this really quick
and talk to you?
And I look back at my computer and it's just gone.
My whole edifice that was in my head that wasn't on the computer is gone and I have
to rebuild it.
It's faster the second time, but it still takes time.
I wonder if I did that to myself, if I would just screw myself, but when I'm not doing
something particularly productive, I do get up every few minutes and wander around.
And I feel like that'd be a great, this tomato timer would probably be really good for doing
unproductive things like playing video games for hours on end.
Because honestly, just telling myself, Hey, it's been 25 minutes, you need to get up and
walk around.
Or when you get up in another 90 minutes, you know, you're going to be really uncomfortable.
So at the very least, be, be active, you know, every few minutes or something.
Yeah, that's a good entry point.
You could try it out with something that's not literally your work at your job.
Yeah, that's a good idea.
Yeah.
So if you like it, start small.
There's a tool that actually is great because it combines the promoter technique with something
that works really great for me, which is social pressure, the less wrong study hall.
Yes.
Was it somebody else mentioned this way back in the day on the show?
Okay.
It might have been Max.
Yeah.
You probably already put a link to that, but I don't think we did.
No one's listening to old episodes anyway.
So why don't you tell us what the less wrong study hall is?
Less wrong study hall is a chat where you can, you can join the chat.
Somebody whoever enters first sets the promoter timer and they're like in charge of it.
So you log in, you turn on your webcam or you share your screen, depending on what you're
comfortable with, and you just sit there and you do your work for the 20 minute interval.
You take the five minute break and then you can chat with everybody else in the group.
Talk about what you're working on, ask questions, and it keeps you focused the same way that
like working at a job and knowing that your boss is watching you keeps you focused or being
in school.
That works really great for me because I have a really hard time motivating myself to work
on things that I want to do like art or writing, but that are not like related to making money
or helping people in other ways.
Like you know, if I have a friend that needs help, I'm going to prioritize that.
Even though, you know, I will always deprioritize my own art or writing just because I feel
like, well, that I don't need that.
I don't need to do that.
Other things are more important.
I can force myself to feel like this is work by having somebody watch me.
And even if it's like somebody on a webcam or even if it, you know, I know I'm logged
into the chat and yeah, then, you know, when the promoter leader leaves the group, somebody
else picks it up and it's also a great way to meet other, you know, rationalists from
other groups.
That sounds really cool.
I think that sounds like a great idea.
And I was interested when I heard about it the first time to like, I should try that
sometime and I've gotten better, I think at actually committing to doing things since
then.
So I just made a note of it too.
I'm going to put a link to it on the episode for this or the description for this episode.
But I'm also going to try it in real life because why not?
It doesn't hurt to give it a shot.
I'm sure it's free.
So when I was writing full time, I always went to a Starbucks to write because even
though no one there is actually looking at you, it just kind of felt like they were.
I was like, I have to be good for the people, you know, that are watching me because otherwise
I'm a slack.
I'm like, I would still take a little while to get started and I would still take some
breaks now and then, but having those people there really made a big difference.
And leaving your house too, you get away from all the distractions of, oh, no, I need to
clean these dishes.
Oh, well, I'm about to go out the door and work on some writing, but oh, look, like there's
some clothes on the floor.
I need to pick those up first.
I never really had those distractions.
My biggest distraction was like, oh, look, there's a comfy bed and I am feeling mildly
nappish.
That too.
Can't do that at Starbucks.
Yeah.
And there's coffee at Starbucks.
Yeah.
Everyone sees you being productive.
And so not only are you putting on a show, but you're.
You're signaling.
My inner Robin Hansen is just like, yes, of course, they're going to look over and look
at this important person who he's been there this whole time.
He's been clicking away.
He must be doing something really important, which I really think a lot of my life is just
performance.
I think a lot of people.
That's a human thing.
I think, I think that, yes, that's a human thing.
And I think you're, you're noticing the stage, whereas many people maybe don't, right?
Okay.
Because that's how most people do stuff, right?
So I've heard a lot of people get really upset when they learn about the whole signaling
theory thing because they start looking around and go, oh my God, everybody's signaling
all the time and that's all we do it.
I'm doing it.
No, no.
How do I stop?
I actually saw somebody had posted that somewhere.
I wish I could remember where, but somebody wrote, how do I stop myself from signaling?
And people came in and they said, you, you don't, you would stop being a human being.
You're like, it's not bad to signal.
I mean, obviously.
The only way to stop yourself from signaling is to isolate yourself from all of those humans.
Yeah.
And then like, you know, that is great for your mental health.
Right.
Right.
I've been thinking about that once and it was basically like, you know, is there a way
to like do something that isn't communicated as signaling and, and no, there's not.
I don't think so.
There's at least two different kinds though.
There's like the kinds of signals that you're sending either like on purpose basically,
and there's the, there's the kinds of signals and these often overlap that people are reading
from you.
Right.
So like, I tend to wear non-descript clothing.
I wear, you know, dark colors and grays and stuff.
And I, you know, don't interact with people on the train or something, but someone looks
over, they'd be like, oh, look at him signaling his, you know, introversion or something.
I've heard people like, you know, bust on Silicon Valley programmers for wearing like
the hoodie and jeans uniform and they're like, oh, look, they're signaling so hard that they're
cool programmers.
Look, they're just walking around with a backpack and off brand sneakers and like, it's like,
you can't do anything.
You can't do anything.
That's me.
