And but like that, that actually, I was like, Oh, I get it now.
Like this is like a really significant emotional experience that I've never had before, like
a feeling of like belonging to a community and like being a part of something bigger
and it being something that I really support and think is great.
That makes me more excited to try to attend one and also way more apprehensive.
Oh, why more apprehensive?
There's this, I'm getting this feeling of like, how do I put this?
It seems like there's room to do that so wrong and it would be impossible to tell if you're
doing it wrong or at least be really hard, you know, like we should all rejoice that
smallpox was eliminated through the power of science.
That's great.
And you know, if you're moved emotionally by that, that's, that's fine too.
But if you're holding hands and singing about it and crying, that looks just way too much
like, you know, the holy ghosting, you know, dancing religious people who, you know,
babble, you know, and all that sort of stuff.
Yeah, but it's not that it like, I don't know.
I think that like it's perfectly valid and fine to have really strong emotional feelings
about things.
I agree.
No, I think so.
I think it just, it seems, it has this air being swept away by the Holy Spirit.
And in a way, that's kind of what it is where the Holy Spirit is, you know.
I mean, that's kind of what you're going for too.
You want to get that swept away feeling.
I, so, and I, like I said, some part of that sounds really attractive.
The other part sounds like, nope, scientists keep their feet firmly on the ground, right?
It sounds interesting and I'm not opposed.
That's, that's, I don't know, if somebody was doing that and making slightly different
noises, they'd be religiously, they'd be, they would be this religious fervor, right?
But because they're making the right noises, it's okay.
And I, part of me thinks that the noises that they're making shouldn't really matter.
I don't know.
There's a lot of things that look like other things, but like aren't.
No, that's, that's a good point.
Like, it sounds like you're worried about like getting addicted to the emotional uplift.
I'm worried that it'll look like we're a religion.
Oh, so it'll look bad to other people.
Well, and it will basically be one if we're doing all the things that religions are doing,
but no, ours is true because that's what they tell themselves.
I don't know.
So part of, like, I think that's why we, I'm not saying we should go full spark and say,
no, no, no feelings allowed.
I'm a big fan of feelings and a big fan of big feelings.
I think it's, again, I, I, I'm having a mixed bag of emotions here.
You asked why the neg, you know, that's why I was having partly apprehensive ones.
And I think that's why I think it is because it's such a powerful thing.
That's worrying.
And that's also why it's super attractive.
The idea that you can, that you can get caught up in an awesome message that happens to be
true.
The fact is like, maybe that's why it's apprehensive is that this one happens to be true, but you
could be caught up by anything.
I remember I was at a,
But can you live your entire life just being skeptical of everything?
Well, I don't know if that's not, there's seems like a false dichotomy, right?
Like you can, you can get way up in it, but
It can be all about getting to ours.
Not be carried away, right?
Yeah.
I mean, like I can look at, you know, a, like, I might have teared up or actually cried watching
Falcon, one of the, one of the Elan's rockets landing again.
Right.
Like that's amazing.
If you had been in a room full of a bunch of other people that were also really into it,
that might look religious.
Yeah.
That's part of the concern.
It's okay with me, you know, looking at my phone.
So you can do it alone in the dark where no one can see you.
Yes.
No community.
Okay.
No, I don't, I having just thought of this for the first time, I don't have a very coherent
position on it, but I have this mixed bag of emotions on it.
I mean, I know since a lot of us did come from the religions, I think that's why we're
worried.
Like we've twice now talked about having a Denver solstice thing and twice now not gone
through with it because we do got a lot of people here who came from those religions
and fear that sort of thing.
And I think entirely rightly so.
And it just, it squeaks you out once you get out of here, like, oh God, I don't, I don't
want to be part of that.
I don't want to perpetuate this.
But on the other hand, it is, like he says, a powerful tool.
I don't know.
I'm really torn on the whole matter.
Yeah, I am too, honestly.
Like I enjoyed it a lot, but I also was raised Catholic and have really mixed feelings about
it.
And I thought it was worth the experiment though.
I was like, maybe I will go and see if I feel anything and then I either will reject it
or accept it.
And I decided to accept it.
I was like, it was fun, but I don't feel like, oh no, I need another hit of emotional intensity.
Well, I mean, you had such a great experience too.
Like I've, I've had, when I went to the writers of the future thing, I, it was like kind of
an almost a spiritual bonding experience with the other writers there that for that week.
And fucking Burning Man last year was just an amazing, and I mean, that's even marketed
as a spiritual thing.
And it totally was.
It was the best thing I've ever done in my life.
And I don't know, those things are great.
I just, then I, you know, hear things about making sigils to Thor.
And I'm like, ah, what happened?
Where did we go wrong?
And it wouldn't be anybody if you're making sigils to Newton.
No, no, it was just as bad.
That's my point.
Yeah.
So like it, it has this air of oddness about it.
And maybe that could be honed in a way that's maybe honed in a way that's useful, but maybe
not safe.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, that is, that is the concern too that like you want to be able to always communicate
to people that if you're doing like a sigil to Thor, this is me joking.
This is a metaphor or I'm being ironic.
And it's hard to, you know, like people, there's people that don't understand sarcasm and that
they're really common.
And then like, there's, there's no like safe way to try to like, you know, I think people
were trying to norm for a while that you would like do slash sarcasm when you would like
write a sarcastic comment to like help people who get confused by sarcastic comments understand
what's going on there.
But I do find that helpful on Reddit.
Okay.
I was going to say that I thought they were unsuccessful at norming it.
Well, I don't know if Reddit norms anything, but it's normed on Reddit, I think.
Oh, good.
I think it's important when you're talking with strangers because strangers can't tell.
Yeah.
Well, if you're talking with friends, even if I say something like, yep, I'm going to
go murder some babies for my rashless cult now, all my friends will be like, haha, good
one.
Or as you know, as some stranger might be like, oh my God, they're subtle.
So what cult?
They're already murdering babies.
I think it's such a ridiculous over the top thing to say that nobody would think that
you were being serious.
No, that's true.
I mean, that example specifically was way over the top.
But there's some things I've said that have been kind of borderline, which everyone that
I know knows it's a joke, but someone who didn't know me might not know that it's a joke.
Like if you wanted to purify the gene pool.
Exactly.
Like, we know what you mean.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But other people have a very different connotation for that.
Yeah.
I wish there was some way we could tag like speech without it being like a weird obnoxious
thing that nobody is ever going to do.
I use a lot of emojis and text messages.
Yeah.
But like you can't do that.
And well, okay.
You can make real emotions in real life with expressions.
That sounds hard with your face.
Yeah.
With your face and your hands.
So much easier just to use a few characters.
Although some people don't get that actually.
Don't get what?
Facial expressions or gestures.
Oh, that's got to be really hard.
That said, though, I moved enough by hearing about your experience that if we have Denver
host a Solstice one that I'm invited to all go.
If I can.
We don't have to do the ritual either.
You could just have a big Solstice party where it takes place on.
Well, I mean, we've done that, but that's just a party.
I actually do want to try out the ritual.
You could start it really, really like minimal.
Yeah.
Just one candle and no dead animals.
Yeah.
Like have a toast.
I don't know.
No, no.
I think that's a good idea.
And even like a toast is sort of a ritualistic sort of thing.
But I kind of want to see what it's like to go gung-ho with it.
So we'll see what happens.
Someone else to coordinate the ritualistic part of it.
That's the problem.
Because I don't think I'd be a good host for that either.
I think a couple of people we know would be good at it.
Yeah, if I'm here, I'll help.
Perfect.
I like volunteering and organizing things.
But actually the Solstices from what I've heard were very difficult to organize and coordinate.
And it was like a lot of volunteers that were jumping in and helping that made it work.
But like I feel like, yeah, then we'll probably get people that jump in and volunteer and help too.
Sweet.
Okay.
I think we're almost done here.
Oh, yeah.
And then, then he goes on to say, now as for how much I believe in magic, I'm not telling.
And I liked your look of disapproval reaction to that.
Because I also agree.
He does say thinking about any area where there is a fringe that overlaps with the bizarre.
