You hear a task and if you don't write it down, you might forget it.
Or you might be like, oh, if I write this down, I'm going to have to go pull open my
task list.
That's going to cause anxiety.
There's going to be...
I'm going to have to figure out what category it goes in.
I don't want to do that right now.
I'll do it later and then you don't.
But if you just have a notebook and you just write it in there, it'll take a second and
it's easy to remember to do it and you don't experience as much resistance.
Yeah.
Then there was what Stephen was talking about where there's the separating the tasks.
I wish it was easier to have a notebook on me at all times.
And I know I have my phone on me at all times, but I always feel rude if I whip out my phone
while other people are around and start typing in things, even if it's just a task that I
need to do.
There's small pocket sized notebooks.
Yeah, but they have the same problems as the backpack, they get all mangled in my pockets
pretty quickly.
They have ones that are pretty well reinforced.
Like they have hardcover ones.
Then you have to carry a pen and stuff too.
That's okay.
I got pockets.
I don't have pocket space for a pen, even a small pen.
They have these notebooks.
I'm trying to remember a brand.
I'll have to add it back later, but there's these notebooks where the pen actually inserts
into the notebook and the notebook is made of steel to protect the pages.
I don't know.
It's very small, very compact.
It's made specifically for this purpose.
Shit.
I'm going to look that up.
Yeah, I feel bad that I forget the brand because it was something that was on my wishlist
for a really long time.
I still haven't gotten one and now it's just gone from my brain.
Well, my handwriting is terrible, so I'll stick to my phone and I'll push past the
rudeness factor.
Yeah.
It doesn't worry me.
I feel like most of the time, if somebody is like, hey, can you do this?
I'll be like, sure, let me just take a note of that and I pull my phone out and then it's
socially acceptable.
Yeah.
I've done that.
We were just at the party I had a few months ago.
I said exactly that.
Let me write this down.
I mean it ups.
I do that frequently too.
What's Google Keep?
Is that a note keeping app?
Yes.
Because I just use the notepad for iPhone and it sucks.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I have an Android and I have Google.
The thing I love about the Google suite of products is that they're all backed up to
the cloud and they auto-save and they all sync with each other and Google Assistant's
cool too.
This has gotten so good to the point where now I can capture tasks by saying, hey Google,
remind me to go to the store and pick up milk tomorrow at 5 a.m. or hey Google, when I get
to work, remind me to tell my boss this thing and Google knows when I get to work, which
is creepy, but useful.
Well, it's got your work as a geolocation, right?
Yeah.
But I didn't tell it to save my workplace.
I just found out where my workplace was.
Well, it's the place that you go to Monday through Friday at these exact times every
day, right?
Yeah.
So I figured it out.
Google's a smart monkey.
It's not a monkey.
Smart Silicon God.
Yes.
Google Keep lets you write lists and you can check items off a list, so it's good for
your grocery list or items that you need to check off.
You could just take a bunch of notes in it and you can add a reminders feature.
So it will actually serve as like an alarm.
It'll pop up and it'll say, I'm reminding you of this thing and you can kind of snooze
the reminder to and you can like, you know, swipe it off your screen to say that that
is done or you can push the snooze alarm or you can dismiss it.
It's just really well integrated with all of Google's other, you know, suites as well.
So I'm kind of shilling Google right now.
And these are used with...
Oh, yeah.
What's up?
I have a question.
Okay.
We have a question from the audience.
Go ahead.
Our audience wants to know if you can use the Google voice command to add a task to
Google Keep.
Yes.
If you're talking about assistant, I think it's the same thing.
Yeah.
No, absolutely.
That is...
I do that all the time.
I'll be riding my bike and my phone will be in my pocket and I will tell it like, you
know, I've suddenly remembered, oh, I need milk and I'll just yell, hey, Google, remind
me to get milk when I get off of work and it does.
So for the record, iPhone does something like that.
There's a reminders app that I've got different categories.
I've got one called reminders, one called random, one called shopping list.
And it knows what those are.
So I can say, I can hold down the home button or say, hey, Siri, if I had that enabled and
do the same thing.
But I did just download the Google Keep app because the reminders app is not as fun to
look at.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I have to go here and then go back to other ones.
That's too complicated.
It's kind of a mess.
So, yeah.
I'll try the Google Keep one.
That sounds fun.
So Google Keep integrates with this GTD getting things done system?
No, with other Google products.
Right.
I like to use it for the getting things done system.
Oh, yeah.
I like to use it as a capture system.
Although actually, what I use as my primary capture system is just a WordPad document
on my laptop.
And I've tried a bunch of other ones and that's just what works for me because what happens
is I need to dump my task list every so often.
I'll end up with a bunch of clutter on there that are tasks that I'm never going to do
or that I forget to check them off.
So I just delete that WordPad document and I start a new one.
My partner Vivian has something very similar except you get a little pixelated icon and
every time you complete something on your task list, you get gold or XP.
Oh, is this Habitica?
Yes, it's Habitica.
That's the name.
That's another really good one.
Yeah.
And then you use that gold to buy swords to fight monsters and the way you fight like
big bosses is just do lots of tasks and every time you do a task, it does some damage to
the monster or whatever.
It looked really neat.
Yeah.
It's fun because you can join a party.
Yes.
And then you've got the social pressure of like, oh, we're on a campaign with our friends
and we've got to beat this monster.
But it also, I've been hesitant about using it myself because it seems like I would get
caught up in the gamification aspect of things and then like...
Then you're putting all sorts of things on your task list and just getting all sorts
of shit done because you want to beat a monster?
Maybe.
I don't know.
You're artificially inflating the list to get stuff done to beat the monster too, right?
Yeah, but either way, you're putting something on your list and then getting it done unless
all you're doing is putting things on the list and checking them off.
Well, okay, if all you're doing is entering things and checking them off without doing
anything, sure, you suck, but then you might as well just open up the console and be like,
unite the clans.
I feel like that's what I would do.
Okay.
I'm more like customizing my avatar and like things that you know, aren't actually helping
me be productive.
Oh.
Burn a bunch of time just making yourself better at the game.
I would do that too.
I would...
There's one...
I was listening to...
Years ago, there was...
Might still be around.
There was a podcast with Camille Nanjiani and Emily B. Gordon called The Indoor Kids.
It was about video games.
And one of their friends that they had on had recently had kids and he described how he
had gamified fatherhood.
Oh, that sounds cool.
And I don't think it was so rigid as to have an app with an avatar because that would,
again, take a lot of time and energy.
Oh, man.
But I want to see the dad ever, so I want to see the tears.
But he would do where it's like every diaper he changes, he'd give himself a point or
two or something or whatever.
And when he hit a number of points, he'd reward himself by like buying a video game or watching
a movie or something, but he earned those by doing parenthood points.
So I think gamifying is one fun system.
Which one of those three would that fall under?
Would that be...
I guess...
I think that is a...
Maybe a brain hack, unless it's a tool.
I don't know.
Yeah, if you're using a spinnaker, then it might be a tool.
I guess...
Combination.
This person might have been doing it in their head or maybe like on pen and paper or something
to keep track.
But...
Yeah, it sounds like the mind hack, the productivity hacks category.
The categories aren't important, though.
