which you feel very passionate about.
So value can motivate you, but also it's not a necessary part of the equation.
Impulsiveness is like deciding to, you know, eat cereal instead of having a healthy dinner
or deciding to play video games instead of working on the novel that you really want to do.
And that is just, you know, we're animals and we have like dopamine systems
and, you know, even if you really want to work on that novel, your monkey brain is going,
oh, you don't want to do that.
You're not going to get an immediate hit of dopamine from doing that.
But you will if you play this fun video game that you just downloaded on your phone.
So and then our delay is just how long is it going to take me to do this task?
How soon will I like see the rewards, like reap the rewards of having done this task?
So if you, if your friend is in need and you, you know, you know, they're in hard times
and you give them some money and then they're they're really happy
and like you get like warm fuzzies from that.
Yeah, you do that and it gives you immediate gratification
or you like to do a lot of things that give you immediate gratification.
So maybe you do prioritize stuff on your task list over and over again
because you're like, oh, yeah, but like, you know, if I do this right now,
I'm not going to see the reward for a really long time.
So your brain like can't think in that kind of scale.
Your brain just wants like immediate gratification.
And yeah, that that is the procrastination equation.
So you stare at this equation, you can write it down somewhere.
And when you're experiencing a fields and you don't know why you're like,
OK, which factors are involved and you can diagnose it.
So it's like, why am I not getting this task done?
Well, because I've been playing video games.
OK, so it's impulsiveness.
So there are tools to deal with impulsiveness that you can use.
Why, like, you know, haven't I like got a 401k yet?
Oh, it's delay because I'm not expecting to see that money.
So I just keep pushing that down on my task list forever.
Why haven't I done this task?
Because it's it's really hard and I'm scared of it expectancy.
Why haven't I done this task?
Because I don't value it.
I don't feel any passion for it.
And then, yeah, there's different tools that you can specifically use for each of those.
A lot of, you know, resistance is some mix of a lot of these.
But usually there's one that really sticks out.
Hey, Stephen, I remember you were saying not too long ago,
we were talking about the UG fields around getting together to do this podcast
and that you have a cool way of getting around them.
Oh, so, yeah, I as long as you're talking about hating doing this over on the show.
I figured it was a good example because we end up always doing it, right?
Right. So to be clear, it's not that we hate doing this.
It's that we hate getting ready to do this.
Yeah, at least I do.
Like, so it's it's always the day of I'm like, oh, man.
But the thing is, I realized that I have that about literally
about basically everything I like doing.
You know, yesterday, we're going to play Pathfinder after work
and four o'clock comes around, like, I'd really rather just go home.
Then wait around till five and do this.
And yet then we sit down and we're having fun all night.
It was great. And that that is consistently the experience.
There was this was kicked off.
I saw an Ascredit thread about Erno was whatever it was, like an AMA or something
with like a sex therapist.
And they were talking about how, you know, if you've got one partner
who has low libido and one partner has high libido,
typically the partner with low libido doesn't dislike sex.
They just don't they aren't in the mood.
They don't feel like having sex.
But once they're having sex, they're enjoying it like everybody else does.
So if you're a person with low libido and it's important to you
to try and up that for yourself to have fun, have, you know,
satisfy your partner more or something, then you can just kind of focus
in the fact like, I'll be having fun here in a few minutes.
I just need to get there.
And my my example of that is much more PG rated.
It's that I hate taking showers or rather I dread it taking showers.
I love the experience of taking showers.
It's relaxing and warm and comfortable.
And I once I'm in there, I'm immediately having a great time.
But it's less now that I'm aware of it.
But when I took it, when I made this connection, I realized immediately
like that's exactly what I do every fucking night is like, ah, I got to go
take a shower. I don't want to. I'll put it off for 10 more minutes.
And now I just tell myself like, hey, you know what?
It's going to be fun.
And in fact, now that I've done that, I haven't been having the same sort
of apprehension about doing the podcast either.
Yeah, because I'm able to like just put myself in the mindset of like,
well, I know where I'm going to be when I get there.
Why don't I just get there now?
Yeah. I mean, I always have a great time while we're recording.
And afterwards I feel good.
We got something done.
We got to hang out for a couple of hours, you know, it was good times.
And yeah, it's the same thing going into it.
I'm like, just think about how you're going to feel once you've started.
Yeah. And it helps a lot.
I think so.
I do have a question about the equation here, though, because I love
there's weaponized approach for each of these and I can I can categorize
my my apathy or my acracia into each one.
But how do you overcome expectancy when I look like, for example,
a couple of co-workers and I are going to work together on building a mobile
app or something outside of work.
And I haven't done anything to work towards that in my free time
because it seems daunting and tiresome and I just don't want to.
So I'm not asking you to solve this for me.
But there's there's a lot of things that you can try.
I'm actually thinking of the less wrong article in particular,
who recommended motivational speeches, things like watching TED Talks
or, you know, looking at Elon Musk's rocket landing or, you know,
like things that really get you amped up and motivational music.
You can it's kind of a brain hack where you can actually like kind of
rah-rah yourself into a state of I have like higher faith in myself now.
It's hard not to get amped about whatever you're doing when I have the tiger comes on.
Yeah. Was that one of the specific songs?
No, I've just everyone knows that I have the tiger gets you everything.
Right now, right now, we should put some of the tiger underneath us.
You said motivational anything before you do your task.
Yeah, like a TED Talk or something.
Yeah, or you can keep like a list of achievements that like
this is kind of related to another thing, which was just, you know,
Bayesian reasoning, updating your beliefs about certain things
when your brain is telling you one thing.
For example, I always, you know, I have really bad social anxiety.
So my brain constantly says, you're annoying people.
They hate you, your friends, you know, like and but I've,
you know, kind of done like cognitive behavioral therapy sort of tools.
Like, is this true?
What evidence do you have for this?
Like ask the friend, you know, and then like you can actually be like, OK,
so like what, you know, what is my like confidence level that this friend hates me
and you can actually keep a number on that?
That's maybe something we should talk about more in a bit
because I want to get back to, you know, the motivational things.
But if you keep like a record of here's a list of times that I felt
like I couldn't do a thing, but then I actually did it or like keep it in your head.
Just remind yourself that like I was totally about to ask you,
like, haven't you done things that you really had no clue what you were doing
when you first started, but eventually you got it done. Totally.
And that's so I got over that.
And I think that's a great technique to have.
And so I can do stuff mainly when I'm at work on this thing,
not not writing anything because then it belongs to the company
because I saw Silicon Valley.
But the, you know, I could do like research and stuff at work.
It's more just like when I'm at home and I have my free time,
like a good example of this is I've been successfully going to the gym
on average like three times a week for like eight months.
Because I haven't said this on the podcast.
I have said it to you in person, but you can totally tell if you look good.
Thank you. That's flattering.
The just so everyone knows Steven is a hottie and you should all want him.
Wow. All right.
Moving right along.
So the reason that I can do that is because there's a free gym at my in my
office at work. So I just moved from the part I moved from an apartment
that I lived in for four years with a gym in the apartment building
that I used maybe 10 times over four years because my all my stuff
is just right around the corner. Why would I go down to the gym?
But if I tell myself, if I get to work early or if I tell myself,
you can't go home until you've gone to the gym, then it's like a much
easier way to make yourself do it.
Routines. Yeah. Habits, I would say.
But this tied into what you just said and I got distracted before that.
You said something about getting over the hurdle of doing it or something
or getting into the there was getting getting past that first initial hump
to get started. Yeah. Well, dealing with your own anxiety about like,
whether or not you can do it, which also sometimes you have to like confront.
Can I actually do this and seek help if not?
Or, you know, like it can actually really help even just to have the
emotional support of asking someone like, hey, or even admitting like, hey,
I feel really like anxious about doing this.
And it's kind of freaking me out.
Do you have any advice to ask a colleague or a friend?
Even if they can't actually give you any kind of like instrumental advice
about, oh, here's how you would do it.
Like that they can kind of reassure you that like, oh, I think that you can do this.
Like, sure. No, that's yeah, that's nice way to think about it too.
I think this was a emotion that had a much, much more use in our past
when Google didn't exist.
Because before, if you didn't know how to do things, you generally just couldn't
do them. And so, you know, it was nice to have that emotion to stop you
from fucking up everything.
Whereas nowadays, when you don't know how to do something, you Google it.
And then, you know, given however much time it takes to learn the thing or the
steps, you can you can make a decent attempt at it.
Yeah. And failure isn't as costly as it would have been in a hunter gatherer
times. If you, you know, fail to hunt, then you will starve.
But if you like, you know, fail to do a task at work, then like, I don't know,
it's you're not going to die.
Yeah, nobody cares.
Well, and back then, like, didn't know how to plant corn.
You're just like, shit out of luck.
Yeah, yeah. Nowadays, you don't know how to plant corn.
10 minutes later on YouTube, you know how to plant corn.
Yeah, I'm trying to make a life skill out of Googling things that I like.
There's something that I want to like, you know, we'll be talking like, I wonder
if this is true. Yeah, that's interesting.
Like you kind of like talk back and forth for two minutes, like, no, wait,
hold on, we can just answer this right now.
Give me a second or looking up how to do stuff.
Like there's, there's one creaky board in my house and it's in the bedroom in an
area that doesn't get that much foot traffic.
