Still like on an industrial scale?
Oh.
Oh yeah.
I'm sure if you've got like a little farm in the backyard, you can bury whatever leftovers you've got back there
or something or dead animal, whatever parts, but you put fertilizer in the dirt,
like if you're farming large scale, right?
I don't know.
I don't know enough about agriculture.
I saw a helicopter dust cropping or dust something when I was heading down the highway a couple weekends ago.
It was kind of cool.
It was doing really low dives.
I thought it was just some guy having fun till I got close up to it and I could see that it was putting out dust.
It didn't look like dead fish, but...
He was probably also having fun.
Yeah.
It was a helicopter, not a biplane?
Yeah, it was a helicopter.
And they were definitely having fun because they were going underneath power lines.
Oh shit.
Like, yeah.
And I've got to think that that was just purely for sport.
Well, maybe if you can get closer to the crops, you don't waste as much stuff in the wind.
I guess.
Yeah.
It goes on to say similarly it might, might in emphasis, be effective to make some magical sigils to motivate and focus the
unplumbed depths of your subconscious towards certain desirable ends.
That's an empirical question.
I think you can probably use magic to do anything that could be done with a similar set of non-magical motivations,
but using magic is probably more fun.
It is definitely more fun.
I think, I think that is like the one part I do kind of agree with that we often need some sort of ritual stimuli to,
to motivate ourselves, but I also think that sucks and we should fix it.
Why are human brains so dumb?
Um, yeah.
But if it works.
Yeah, it's like weaponizing the placebo effect and then like making it like cool.
Instead of taking a sugar pill, you're like drawing a cool picture and like saying a prayer to a God of some sort or,
I don't know.
Whatever you're doing.
I mean, if it works to get you doing it, we're later going to talk about productivity hacks and that might be one of them.
Absolutely is.
Drinking your brain.
Yeah.
I actually really find thinking that I'm doing something in the cause of a greater good to be extremely motivating when I'm not motivated otherwise.
But that is for later on in the podcast.
Sorry.
Uh, oh yeah.
Someone replied saying they were going to push back on calling religion anything that requires false belief,
but I think we already talked about that, right?
Just now you were saying.
Yeah.
I'm going to say myself later on that thread, but a simula crumpet replied saying basically the same thing that it just,
it was so kind of productive that it sounds like the new word for that concept.
Right.
Oh yeah.
They said unless you're deliberately attempting to confuse people, redefining words that have well established meanings is counterproductive.
I think Matt, I don't think he did push back, but I could see someone pushing back as saying,
I don't think that religion is well defined.
Or spirituality.
You're right.
Yeah, either of those things.
They overlap a lot.
They're kind of a Venn diagram.
Yeah.
I just had something like this happen with eugenics recently on someone's Facebook wall.
They, the topic of eugenics came up.
I won't get into the details, but I was like, yeah, no, I am totally in favor of removing these genetic diseases from my children
and from myself if it was possible even, you know, I am not a big fan of this depression thing that I got going on.
And it sort of quickly devolved into people saying, you know what?
The word eugenics has a deep history of forcible sterilization and genocide and racism.
And I was like, yeah, but that's not happening today.
What's happening a day is me wanting to remove genetic diseases from my offspring and someone coming along and saying,
that's eugenics, you can't do it.
And technically that is eugenics in the sense of making genes better.
But then we got into basically a fight over the hysterosity of the definition of a word and whether it applies today.
And I'm like, this is so fucking dumb.
I want to just not use this word now because of all the baggage that comes with it.
Yeah, just don't use the word, call it gene therapy.
I hate that though, because it's an accurate word.
Yeah, but there's other accurate words that, you know, get tainted and loaded with baggage and you kind of just have to accept that language evolves and move on.
Stupid evolution.
I agree. I think like it's certainly probably too soon to try and bring that word back, right?
At the very least, if there are already other good handles to get on, then you can skip the, you know, 90% of the conversation where you explain that you don't mean Hitler eugenics.
You mean just making genes better and you can have a much shorter communication if you are willing to concede and say something like gene therapy or something, right?
Yeah, but there's people, but people always bring it back to that.
Even if you say, I just mean making genes better.
They're like, well, that's the same thing that Nazis wanted to do when you're a Nazi.
Well, then they're idiots because that's not the same thing.
You're not saying because I want to bring all the people in with depression and kill them all.
You're saying I wish that like my kids wouldn't have it, right? That's a very different thing.
I guess I just need to like strike back right away.
I'd be like, how dare you compare me to the genocidal ideology when I just want to get rid of diseases.
Yeah, you want to make the world a better place not by killing people, but by not bringing in people, you know, maybe choose something harder like Huntington's disease or something, right?
Where it's genetic on off switch.
If you've got it, you've got it and you've got what, three, four good decades before it starts eating your brain.
And it's like, you're going to tell me that me wanting to cure that is a bad thing.
You're the Nazis. You're the cycle, right? That's messed up.
Okay, based on confused David himself.
I really got to read his feedback here because I felt really bad like just crapping on him without having him here to defend himself.
So David says,
It doesn't require that you believe anything that is overtly false, but it does require that you understand that the urge for a spiritual and metaphysical understanding isn't a bug in human psychology, but in fact, one of the fundamental principles of its operating system.
My first thought on reading that was that it sounded sort of Peterson-y, right?
I'll have you read Jordan Peterson since the last episode that you said you were going to.
I said I would plan to.
Okay.
I think I probably committed to doing it. I committed to doing it at some point. I haven't read it yet.
In fact, David and I have conversations about this once in a while and he sent me this awesome meme.
There's one of those on the Sam Harris subreddit because Peterson's been retweeting global warming hoax components to articles.
It looks like he's playing the part or it's hard to tell somebody who doesn't believe in truth that global warming isn't true.
So he's playing a climate change nihilist or being one. I can't tell.
I'll just find it really quick because it was funny.
So this came across the Sam Harris subreddit.
Someone posted this little comic of a Trojan horse.
Anyway, it's a little picture of someone leading a Trojan horse into a castle.
The outside of the horse is labeled generic self-help.
The inside of the horse is labeled reactionary far-right politics.
The person pulling the horse is Jordan Peterson.
The guy walking in the gate is teenage boys or teenage guys.
He replied with a picture of Jordan Peterson from, like, pasted over the face of someone from Family Guy saying,
Have you actually read anything I've written?
And then Brian replying from Family Guy the dog.
Well, no, I haven't, but I read things other people have written about the things that you've written.
And I do not approve the things that I've read from others about the things that they've read from you.
So I was like, checkmate, you got me.
So, no, I haven't. And Peterson is my very long-winded answer to that.
So you're going to be our resident Peterson reader and report back to us.
Yeah, I'll see if I'm converted.
I've read it, but let's not talk about it.
Okay, is that another episode?
Yeah, well, I don't know if it's a whole episode. It could be.
I have a friend who is a big fan of Jordan Peterson's that might be fun to have on the podcast.
Do we really? Yes, I guess we do.
We can talk about it. Doesn't have to be a whole thing.
Yeah, I listened to an episode with him on Econ Talk.
Okay.
He seems coherent and fun half the time and, you know, a really just complete whack job the other half of the time.
That's the other half is the part that really annoys me.
I would like the people that I listen to not waste half of my time with ramblings that make no sense.
There was a great sound bite during one of Sam Harris and Jordan Peterson's live events where Peterson was apparently asked,
did Jesus rise from the grave or do you think he did?
I forget if it was because that distinction is important.
Do you think Jesus Christ rose from the grave?
And Peterson replied, it would take me 40 hours to answer that question.
And Harris was like, how about this for an answer?
Almost certainly not.
Yeah.
Like why would it take you 40 hours to say that?
Because he talks a lot.
Yeah.
But he doesn't.
And you can obfuscate a lot in 40 hours.
Exactly.
But yeah, what was your thought on David's?
Oh, my thought on David's thing was that that is true.
There's a lot of really powerful drives in humanity like sexuality is a really powerful drive to and I'm okay using them.
But also it's like summoning up the old ones.
You got to be careful when you do these things because you can very quickly devolve into magical thinking again.
Yeah.
I wouldn't want to remove the desire to have spiritual experiences or sexual feelings,
but I would want to be able to control it, like turn it on and off, use it when I need it,
and when I don't need to be distracted by it, turn it off.
He also mentioned making it safe.
Why wouldn't you try to take this and make it safe?
I'm pessimistic that you can never make it safe because I think that people are going to start taking it seriously no matter what.
Even if you started out as a funny joke and it's like a funny joke with your friends,
somebody is going to go too far because our brains are incredibly wired to start thinking this way
and it's a rabbit hole that you can fall down really easy.
Okay.
So I want to ask you about this because you went to the solstice ritual, the solstice.
What are they called?
The secular solstice.
The secular solstice.
The secular solstice.
Two years.
Two years.
And you said that it was amazing and you loved it.
Yeah.
And that's like a whole big spirituality, ritual, emotional thing, the whole experience, right?
Yeah.
That is a good description of that.
Yeah.
It is basically, it takes the structure of kind of a, I don't know, I was raised Catholic
and it feels like a little bit like a Catholic mass, but then like everything you're talking about is just science or human progress.
So the first one, if I recall, the theme was the defeat of smallpox, the triumph over smallpox
and that was like what we were celebrating.
Nice.
And then that one was a big grim and then the next year it was about like human potential.
I am actually like fine with, you know, doing all of the ritual stuff.
If you're singing songs about science, you know, like that's awesome.
You like, people were like holding hands, people were crying, like having a great like, you know,
emotional experience together because we were like thinking about how great it is that we've
defeated smallpox and that's fine.
Yeah.
I think you said it was like one of the most amazing things you did ever.
Yeah.
Having been raised Catholic, I never actually felt like the, I guess like the catharsis that
you get from, or that you're supposed to get from all those rituals.
It always felt like annoying.
Oh man, why am I like here for a couple of hours and like, what am I supposed to care
about all these people?
