So, the next speakers are Troy Weekes, who is a doctoral research assistant at the Department
of Computer Science at Eris Institute for Assured Information at Florida State Institute
of Technology and Thomas Eskerich, who is a PhD student at the Department of Human
Centre Design, the same university. So, I don't know if the both of you will be presenting
or just Troy, maybe. Great. So, I'm going to leave you the podium to you. You can take
it from there.
Thank you very much for your introduction, Pierre. I'm going to go ahead and get the
presentation started. Personal flow and effort less attention in knowledge work using active
influence. Hi, everyone. My name is Troy Weekes. I'm a PhD student and I'm under the
supervision of Dr. Thomas Eskerich, who is here in the audience. Today, I'm going to
be presenting on a topic that is at the core of my PhD research. I'll be looking at personal
flow and effort less attention, but after providing you a background in those areas,
I will seek to describe the methods that we use in this study, namely survey, modeling
simulation, and then I will summarize the results that we've obtained from the survey,
which was used to generate priors for simulating our model. And then we will look at the analysis
of the simulation results on a visual search task, and then I will conclude with the promising
opportunities that this research has provided us, as well as speak about future directions
for our work. Before getting started, I wish to acknowledge sponsors, L3 Harris Institute
for assured information on the Diverse Intelligence Summer Institute. Thank them for their continued
support on this project. This particular research fits into a wider project that is designed
to enhance the work of knowledge workers by increasing their cognitive well-being and
the amount of time that they spend in the high performance flow state. So when we look
at knowledge workers, there are about over a billion of them throughout the world, and
almost 50% of the workforce in the United States are knowledge workers. These are persons
who perform non-routine cognitive jobs that require significant amount of concentration
and creativity in order to achieve the outcomes. Knowledge work also requires uninterrupted work.
And when knowledge work is conducted successfully, knowledge workers generally report feelings
of flow, which is engaging, challenging experiences with their work that are also enjoyable in
the future. Some examples of knowledge workers on the job. For example, we have process control
engineers who may be monitoring systems within a nuclear plant. Your traffic controllers who
are tracking your craft targets on a radar screen. Lawyers who are searching contracts
and legal documents for references and loopholes. Or even business analysts who are looking
for the next game changing investment to make. All of these knowledge workers have something
in common with their specific work tasks. And that is that their work is made up of
demanding visual search. For example, this figure on the left shows some initial global
scan patterns that are used by your traffic controllers in a moderate congestion scenario
at an airport. And what is noticed is that your traffic controllers, they generally take
more time to detect aircraft conflicts, which are the targets that you're looking for, as
the congestion level increases. So once the number of targets on the screen increases,
which is called the set size, we find that your traffic controllers take more time. Their
visual scan paths, they're generally circular scan paths, or they can be linear scan paths.
And the complexity of the scene that you're scanning can influence the method that they choose
to perform the scan with. In terms of attention, we have a significant body of research that
aligns attention to limited executive resource that can be increased by focusing and concentrating
on a specific task. However, attention itself has a cost, and this cost is generally associated
with cognitive effort. Trisbon and Geladi, they proposed a feature integration theory of attention
which explained how attention shifts according to the complexity of the scene. And they noticed that
when there are simple scenes to scan, there is an automatic and parallel registration of the
features within the scene. Whereas once the scene gets a bit more complex, and there are
combinations and conjunctions of features, the task becomes a bit more focused. It requires
more focused attention, and it becomes a serial process to identify the objects in the scene.
Therefore, more attention is required. We also see that in context of active inference,
some attentional states are internal within the human brain, and they allow the human agent to
control what they're attending to. And we'll get into this as we expand into the theories of attention.
However, to take a look at the visual search tasks and the complexity that is involved,
we have on the left the single feature search, where we are looking for the red circle, and this
particular task is very simple because that red circle pops out with a single feature search.
However, in the conjunction search in the middle, where we may be looking for, let's see, the red
circle, now that we have a conjunction of features, namely color and shape, it becomes a bit more
challenging to identify the specific body target. Whereas on the right hand side with the configuration
search, this particular type of search has increasing complexity because the similarity
between the various distractors and targets is very high, and therefore it will be very
challenging for us to detect the team, which is the target that we are interested in in this
particular search. Now, in terms of how knowledge workers perform their work, they're generally
foraging their work tasks, looking for flow, trying to build momentum, and trying to achieve
successful outcomes. And this is where the theory of personal flow, which was proposed by Sixth
Cent Mihai, which has a number of components that were tested and verified in his research,
as well as follow-up research, where these components can be categorized in antecedents,
which are factors that precede as behaviors, which take place during the state of flow,
and then consequences, their effects or outcomes that are usually reported after the state of flow.
This organization of factors helps to explain what happens when a person engages with
knowledge work as they're seeking flow. What is going to be of particular importance for us
in this particular presentation will be the notion that there is a skill
balanced with the challenge or the demand of the task. This is one of the prerequisites for flow.
Another is the autotelic personality of the person, which is like how
their propensity to enter into the state of flow and how frequently they actually experience
the state of flow. These are going to be important because they affect the priors that we're going
to be using in our simulation model. Another important thing to note is the association
or correlation between personal flow and attention. As the knowledge worker moves from a state of
divided attention, where they may be doing multiple things, as is hinted by this image,
the person may be on social media prior to engaging with their knowledge work,
but their attention is divided, and in the context of thought, they're actually distracted.
Now, let's say that the knowledge worker begins to start the project that they're working on,
but the phone rings and they continue to alternate your attention between the task and the phone,
then that's the alternating attention. They're still relatively distracted. However, once the
person begins to select the task that they're interested in and they have their goals clearly
identified, they now begin to enter into a state of selective attention, and this is
going to lead them hopefully towards a state of pre-flow. As the knowledge worker continues to
focus their attention on the task and block out the distractions around them, their probability
of entering into the state of flow is significantly increased. Until they reach this threshold,
after sustaining this focused attention for a bit of time, it begins to enter into the state of
effortless attention, which is now when they're paying full attention to the task. They're not
worried about their internal state, meaning whether or not they're hungry or if they have
something else to do later in the day. It's all attention on the task, and this frees up some
of the cognitive resources which we're suggesting makes this particular state of attention effortless.
Now, in terms of active inference, what we're looking at is the Markov blanket, which is
established by the sensory states and the active states, which protect the internal states of the
agent from direct interaction with the external states in the environment. The generative process
in the environment causes these external states that become observable to the human
agent, and the observer uses an internal generative model in order to predict
the incoming sensory data that is to be perceived. The observer, after processing that information,
makes an action, but in order to minimize surprise in the future, as well as to minimize
the irrational free energy. These actions change the world or change the external states
of the environment, and the system becomes updated. So here's another look at the blanket
here denoted by B, which contains these sensory states in green, as well as these
active states in blue, and the internal states are represented by this U in the center.
The outer external states are impacting on this agent, but notice is indirectly via those sensory
states. Now, the flow of interactions into these sensory states eventually makes its way across
the blanket and into the internal states where that effect is felt, and then some action is proposed
by the active states in order to make an effect on the external states. Now, in our model of flow,
what we're looking at is the human agent where the demand of stimulus makes up the external
states, and the skill of the human agent encapsulates the sensory states. So here we're
seeing the balance again, or the need for a balance between the demand and the skill,
or the challenge and the skill, which is one of those prerequisites for the flow state.
Now, performance makes up the active state of the human agent, and all of the other states
that we see here in purple constitute the internal states of the human agent.
Now, context is some relevant side information that has an influence on the model, and in our
specific simulation, we're going to have these two variables, the flow propensity and the flow
emotion, which are two variables that we would have sampled from our knowledge workers in the
survey that we are using for priors to get this model going. So we are looking at context,
but not all of the variables of context, only propensity and flow emotion, which we'll see
in a couple seconds. So the methodology that we chose, and as I hinted at earlier, comprises of
a survey, which is followed by some modeling and simulation, and then we perform an evaluation of
the results from the simulation. The survey of the knowledge workers, we partitioned all of our
knowledge workers into four groups. The first question that we asked all of the knowledge workers
was, how frequently do you experience the state of flow during knowledge work? And if the person
said anything greater than sometimes, then we put them over into group CRD, and if they said
anything less than or equal to sometimes, they became parallel group A or group B. But what
differentiates between group A and B is the second question, which is, how do you feel
when you experience the state of flow? If the participants indicated that they felt happy,
then they were placed in group B, and if they were not happy, then they were placed in group A.
However, of the other participants who had answered that they experienced flow more than
sometimes, we did the same partition on the second question, which is, how do they feel
when they experience the state of flow? And those who said that they felt happy,
we put them in group D, and those who said that they did not feel happy, we put them in group C.
So this allowed us to partition our dataset into four distinct groups based on these two questions.
The flow propensity, which is how frequent, and then the flow emotion, which is how do you feel
when you're in the state of flow. And we also formulated this task, which is a visual search
task. Here we have a rule, which is to find this red white, this red upright white, and then we
have a number of distractors in the screen. Some are upside down red ways, some are upside down or
upright green ways, and then the target is right here, which is the only red upright white.
Now the task can be put by the agent searching for a target, and if target is found, then the
agent click on the target. If the agent searches for the target and becomes exhausted, not finding
the target, then they have the opportunity to either continue searching or to click the target
not found button, which would indicate that they click, that they quit. Sometimes the target can
be present in the scene, or sometimes the target can be absent from the scene. So in the case where
the target is absent and the participant has spent a considerable amount of time looking for the
target, they may want to go ahead and press this target not found button if they don't find it.
So here is how the process goes. We start off with a fixation cross, and then the task proceeds
after one second or a thousand milliseconds, then the actual task stimulus is presented
with targets and distractors or without a target. The observer or knowledge worker is supposed to
perform circuits and fixations across the scene, searching for the target until they actually
find the target, whether it is present or not, they will click on the target or click on the
button target not found. In this specific case, the target is not present, actually there is a
target, here it is, and therefore the participant will click on this target, and that's the way
how the target, the visual search task works. Now here is an example of the agent performing
the scan, and you can see that the agent started off here at the fixation point in the center,
and then they moved in this linear fashion across searching for the target. Now this is
only five fixations here, not counting the initial fixation, but the actual simulation
ran with hundreds of fixations in order for the agent to find the target.
So in order to model the agent performing these strategies, we had to come up with different
ways of scanning the scene. For group A, which is again the low flow, not happy group, we allowed
them to use a random scan strategy. We gave group B a linear scanning strategy, group D
they moved in a quadrant oriented manner, so more of a circular type approach, quadrant quadrant,
and then group D, sorry this is the type of group C here, group D is based on a belief strategy.
So group D actually uses the Markov decision process in order to update its belief about
the task stimulus, and this particular agent uses some level of active inferencing in order
to update those beliefs over time. Then we have some probabilities for clicking that target not phone
button and this distribution here was presented again to simulate these particular agents
and the characteristics they are happy or high flow, low flow.
Now this is the specific partially observable Markov decision process model that was used
in order to complete the perception action cycle within this research, and particularly
we are looking at the fact that based on the expected free energy, the highest probability
will be assigned to those policies that minimize uncertainty over states and maximize the probability
of achieving the preferred outcomes which would be to find the target or to click on the target
not phone button if the target is absent from the scene. So to simulate this process we created
four groups of knowledge workers, those are the groups A, B, C, and D. For each group we generated
500 knowledge workers, so there were 2,000 knowledge worker agents in total performing the
simulation. For the actual task stimulus we introduce the number of distractors and target
in the scene to call it a set and be very the set size from 5 to 10 to 25, 50, and 100.
And these these are this difference or this increase in set size is supposed to similarly
increasing complexity and challenge or demand within the task stimulus.
For each knowledge worker we allow them to run 30 trials at each set size level, therefore allowing
each knowledge worker to run a total of 150 trials across the set sizes.
Then we plotted response time over set size for all of the groups when the target was present
we did the same plot, the similar plot for when the target was absent. So we want response time
on the vertical axis set size on the horizontal axis for two conditions when the target is present
and when the target is absent. And the third plot is to plot the uncertainty over the circuits
and fixations of the trial for each of the knowledge work groups. And this time we fixed
the set size at 25 which is the mid the mid level and the observable certainty was decreasing or
changing rather as the as the trial progressed. For our evaluation and looking at these three
plots for the first plot we're interested in finding out if response time increases with set
size across the groups. So as the complexity of the scene increases do we see that corresponding
increase in response time and does it increase more or less for some groups? Likewise for when
the target is absent we see similar patterns it increases with the with the response times.
And then for the uncertainty we want to see which to which group of knowledge workers demonstrate
that notion of minimizing uncertainty, minimizing free energy as they as they perform the task.
So this was the distribution from the survey after we we had a total of 468 participants
and this is the distribution which was relatively skewed towards happy high flow
people almost twice as much in that group compared to the other groups but the other groups are
