We can make worms that are don't even look like flat worms at all they you know there's these crazy spiky forms you know kind of cylindrical things.
These these hybrid shapes, you can explore regions of the latent space of that circuit that evolution normally avoids I mean these are not particularly ecologically competitive, but but the cells don't mind making them you know the latent space of possibilities is quite huge.
So when you think about by engineering and people say there are developmental constraints, and there are things you will never be able to build. I'm not sure that's true at all.
You know under normal circumstances of course there are the mental developmental constraints, but I think that those are more constraints of our imagination and our knowledge then of the cells themselves I think we're sort of imposing that on the cells I think they can build almost anything.
In fact, this thing right here this is kind of an amazing example.
Look, there is, there is a plant genome that normally very reliably makes these flat leaves, and you would look at those leaves and you would think originally that well that's what the genome knows how to do it knows how to make this nice flat structure.
But there's another bio engineer around which is not us, which are these wasps.
And what the wasps do is they put down an embryo and some signals, and those signals hack the morphogenetic cues of the plant and just as we did with the frog and the worm.
They hack these cells to get them to build something completely different this crazy round spiky red thing. And if not for them prompting these leaves with new stimuli, we would have absolutely no idea that these cells are even capable of doing this you know who would have known
if we hadn't seen this would have known that that leaf cells can be prompted to do something like this again not by changing the genome, but by providing signals and stimuli, the way that we want to do with our anatomical compiler.
So biology is is eminently hackable I think living things hack each other all the time. And this is what we as engineers need to understand we need to understand the interface, and we need to understand the competency of our material, so that we can begin to collaborate with it on building
and try to micromanage it. So we build tools, all the way from these kind of molecular biology things where we understand which channels are expressed where, all the way through bioelectric simulators to then higher level kinds of models
of cellular error detection and minimization decision making, so that eventually you get this kind of algorithmic model of how these anatomical decisions get made, so that you can actually interact with it and and hopefully be able to control anatomy
in a much better way. So this is this is something that we're working on this kind of full stack of modeling, but just the way that neuroscience goes from the proteins that are inside of synapses to some sort of psychiatry and psychoanalysis
up here where you can make very large scale system level changes.
Now, I want to very briefly point out that one of the things that comes out of this way of thinking is that, during, during all these processes, not only to do the cells pursue goals, but the size of those goals changes.
So, originally, both in early development and in evolution, unicellular organisms have little tiny cognitive light cones, all of their goals are very small. So this cell really is just only interested in the states pretty much around itself, right, that's a small goal.
But during evolution, these bioelectric networks and of course other forms of communication, allow those goals to grow the the size of the goal becomes huge because these cells are committed to this enormous, enormous kind of thing this this the structure in anatomical
space. In fact, they're perfectly willing to die for it. Many of these cells will die they will app up toast during this journey, but that's okay the collective itself is working very hard to maintain this goal if you deviate it by cutting it
it'll get right back there and then it'll stop. So the size of the goals towards which they work will grows radically, but that process has a failure mode and that failure mode is cancer, because occasionally those cells get disconnected and what you're looking at here is human
glioblastoma. These cells are not any more selfish than these cells, it's just their selves are smaller. So what's happening during during cancer is a constriction of the cognitive light cone, where the size of the self the border between self and world goes from this very large
thing or even larger in the body to back to here back to their evolutionary ancient past as basically unicellular amoebas. And so that means that if we really think about the scale of this cognitive light cone like what's the size of
the kinds of goal states that cells and tissues can can entertain. We now have a new entry point to under to controlling these things in clinical settings. So this is our example where what we've done we inject a nasty human oncogene like a
KRAS mutation or something like that and of course they will make a tumor. But instead of trying to kill those cells what we do is we co inject the ion channel that will hyperpolarize them and keep them functionally connected
electrically connected to their network. And if you do that, even though the oncogene is blazingly strong up here I mean you can see it everywhere. This is the same animal.
There isn't any tumor, because it's not the genetics that drives it's not that it's not that the cells are not irrevocably broken by this by this mutation. They were simply disconnected and if you force them to be reconnected.
They're now instead of pursuing little amoeba scale goals of proliferation and migration to wherever life is good.
Attastasis. Instead of that, they're continuing to work in a group towards making nice skin nice spinal cord muscle and all of that. So of course we're moving trying to move that now to some human medicine.
Okay, so the last story I'm going to tell today has to do with a kind of synthetic bioengineering, because so far what I've told you is our various attempts to control normal structures that these that these cells and tissues build for let's say regenerative medicine approaches but
but now let's focus on which plasticity is there what else are they capable of forming and pursuing.
So this is a this is mostly the work that we do in our Institute for computationally designed organisms.
Doug Blackiston did all the biology that I'm going to show you but this is a close collaboration with Josh bond guard at the University of Vermont and same treatment was his student when we did some of this early work.
Let's just let's just ask this question.
I'm going to take an early frog embryo. We're going to collect some cells up here that are destined to become skin so these are these are ectodermal cells they're going to become skin we liberate them from the rest of the body we dissociate them we put them in a pediatric what's going to happen.
Well many things could happen they could they could die, they could crawl off away from each other they could form a nice two dimensional monolayer like cell culture.
Instead what they do is overnight they come together, and they coalesce into this into this interesting little thing we call a xenobot.
Why is it a xenobot. Well, Xenopus lavis is the name of the frog, and we call it a bio bot because it is potentially a platform in which we can learn to program their form and function we're going to try to understand how to control this.
Here's what it looks like it's swimming along. It has little silly a little hairs that propel it against the water. These cells are these silly are normally used by tadpoles to and by frogs to move the mucus down the side down the side of their body.
But here they're using it to row against the water. They can go in circles and they can patrol back and forth, and they can be made into other shapes and they have these.
These collective behaviors they can interact with each other they can go on these kind of longer journeys. Here's one running a maze.
So what you see here is that it goes down this path, it takes the corner without bumping into the opposite ball. So it takes this corner here for some reason that the known only to itself it decides to turn around and go back where it came from.
So they have spontaneous we were not we're not actuating them we're not pulsing them with electricity or anything like that they swim on their own.
They have all kinds of fascinating behaviors. They can self heal. So if you, if you cut them almost in half, they will get the look at the force.
That's that's that's necessary through this hinge to fold this thing back, but basically they will they will form form back into their into their son about shape.
One of the most amazing things they do is they fulfill von Neumann's dream which is to have a construct that builds copies of itself or material it finds in its environment.
And if you provide these zenebots with loose skin cells here what what you see them doing is corralling these cells into little into little balls polishing these little these little balls, and then because they're working with an
agential material these are not passive pellets these are cells. What happens is these little balls mature into the next generation of zenebot, and guess what they do they run around and collect, but then create little balls themselves, which makes the next
generation and the next generation. And so what happens is that they do this kind of kinematic self replication, and they continuously make make copies of themselves.
Now, this is interesting because you might think that what the frog genome learn how to do is this this developmental sequence and these tadpoles with specific behaviors.
But now we find out that by liberating these cells, we didn't add anything to them we didn't give them new genes. We didn't do any genomic editing there are no weird nano materials are no scaffolds.
It was engineered by subtraction we liberated them from the normal signals that are coming from these other cells. What what these signals are doing is hacking these cells to make to force them into a very boring two dimensional life as the outer skin layer
of an embryo sitting there quietly just you know, repelling the bacteria and things like that. But here you get to find out what these cells are actually capable of in the absence of these other cues, they do something completely different.
They make a Xenobot. The Xenobots have their own developmental sequence over time this is, I think, almost three months old, I have no idea what it's trying to become but but there it is it's got this weird weird structure and they have different behaviors that you're seeing here.
So, this branch has no straightforward evolutionary backstory there's never been any Xenobots there's never been selection to be a good Xenobot.
There's no other creature that we know of reproduces by kinematic cell for application. So, where did this all come from it wasn't selection.
But but this is an emergent feature of of these cells, acting in a new kind of a configuration where they're liberated from the normal forces that are hacking them into their conventional form that we see.
By the way, their behaviors are super interesting they can learn and some other stuff that's not published so stay tuned for that story but we're studying their ability to perceive signals and remember them and so on.
So the last the very last thing I'm going to show you is this, having seen those Xenobots one thing that you might decide is that well, amphibians are pretty plastic embryos are definitely very plastic.
We know that animal caps make the ciliated epithelium maybe this is just a frog specific thing.
So, I want you to take a look at this little creature and ask yourself what do you think this is, and you might guess that this is something I got out of a pond somewhere it's like a primitive organism that they came from a waterway somewhere.
I can tell you that if we were to sequence the genome, what we would get is homo sapiens. This is 100% human genome. These are bio bots, we call them anthra bots made of adult human.
Donate tracheal epithelial cells. So patients many of them in their 70s and 80s donate a tracheal epithelial cells during biopsies, and these cells can be a coax to be these kind of bots.
So, so these anthra bots. Here's one moving down a scratch that we made in a culture of IPS derived neurons. So there's like like a wound. And what you see is that if a bunch of them we call this a super bot because a bunch of them kind of call us together to
make this kind of structure, what they'll do over four days or so is they'll start to heal this wound. They'll start to they'll start to knit together the two sides of this of this this damage here.
So, now, who would have thought that these that these tracheal cells which sit there quietly in your airway for decades, if given the opportunity can reboot their multicellularity become a self multi a little creature that actually has this capacity.
This is the first thing we found I'm going to guess they have probably hundreds of different or thousands of different other behaviors that are interesting. This is the first thing we found.
So, this idea here is that all of these, all of these cells and tissues have numerous competencies both individually and in groups, and our job is to start to understand them and start to program them, because much like with any complex system, the goal isn't to control them
necessarily bottom up so you can see here these are the different engineering tools that we have for different levels of complexity. I call this the spectrum of persuadability because you use different tools to manipulate these different kinds of systems.
And symbio and morphogenic engineering is really hard if you insist on micromanaging at the lowest level.
But we're dealing with a material that has all of this stuff built in, it's already here for you, and sure we can add some of these things with with synthetic biology and so on, but enormous power arises from from controlling these kind of capacities
up here. For example, those anthrobots are patient derived, a gentle interventions that could be injected back into the body, you don't need immune system suppression because they're the same cells as the patient.
In fact, they have the same priors as we do about what health and diseases what inflammation is what cancer is, we don't have to teach them this we don't have to construct all the sensors that they need and all this all this other machinery it's already there.
And so the final thing I'm just going to say is this that because of this amazing ability of biology to assume from the start that the parts are unreliable that you cannot count on being a proper embryo you who knows what configuration you're going to come into the world as biology is incredibly interoperable.
Pretty much any combination of evolved material, designed or engineered material and software is some kind of agent. So cyborgs hybrids chimeras of different kinds.
All of these things, some of them are already being made, but but many of them are coming. And in the future, basically what we're going to see is that all of Darwin's what when he said endless forms most beautiful it's the whole variety of life on Earth.
It's a tiny corner of the possible state space actually that we're going to explore. And for the young people in the audience in your lifetime, you are going to be living in a world where you are not going to be able to judge other beings based on what they look like or how they got here,
meaning evolved versus engineered because we're going to be seeing every combination of biology and technology moved in every direction.
And all of these are viable bodies and minds and we're going to have to develop strategies for an ethical synthbiosis with with these beings and to really understand how can we relate to other beings when they are not on the tree of life with you and questions about their structure or provenance are not the key parameters that you need in order to
understand how to relate to them. So I'm just going to summarize here by talking about this idea that we have, we've learned many lessons from the cellular collective intelligence navigating in anatomical space.
Bio electricity is a really cool interface by which we can communicate with the primitive cognition or the problem solving of those those kinds of those kinds of agents, we can exert top down some degree now over rational control over where they go in space.
There's immense plasticity. And we are working on some AI interfaces to really help communicate with those tissues. And I think that we're going to really unlock the potential of CRISPR synthetic biology and by robotics by understanding the intelligent
agential nature of the material not just the technology to control specific molecules, but to really understand the world from the perspective of the material. What does it remember what does it measure what are its goals, what competencies does it have.
What is its stress level of various things and so on. So if anybody's interested in this stuff.
Here are some papers that go into all of this in great detail.
I want to thank the people so these are the postdocs and grad students who did most of the most of the work that I showed you today.
We have lots of amazing collaborators and our technical support.
Lots of funders to thank for supporting our work, including these companies. So we have commercial source funding from from these labs.
Yeah, and in particular, you know, the animals really are the most important component here. So I thank you for listening and
