There, there will probably be like a lot of like extremely powerful technologies in the future.
A lot of them may be consciousness technologies as well.
And not all of them will be pushing in the, you know, in the pro consciousness direction and,
and people will still be using them if they can for, for a variety of reasons.
But yeah, I mean, like, I don't, I mean, I think like individual choices obviously matter.
I think like the, the approach of moralizing people doesn't really work in practice.
So I don't, I don't, I'm not very particularly fond of it. I, I think like people changing people's
hedonic representations of the world is, is where it would, would be at. I mean, like the,
what happens, for example, on, on MDMA that allows you to reconnect with a, with a lover
or make peace with yourself has a lot to do with the fact that your inner representation of others.
I mean, this kind of like cartoon character that you use in order to
predict and make sense of the inner states of others becomes massively enriched.
And it also becomes massively enriched with positive emotions.
I guess I should say that most people don't necessarily realize that the world's world simulation
has a hedonic tone, not only in how they feel their bodies or how they feel about their emotions,
but also in the objects they represent around. So like when you look at somebody who's very
attractive is, is not so much that it's only, you know, like making you feel good by looking at
the person in your body, your own body, but it's also that the actual shape of the person is
completely embedded with positive hedonic tone, in a sense, kind of like materialized visual
pleasure. And, and the thing like, yeah, modulating that to basically motivate us to,
in a sense, whenever we think about our future selves, we think of them as close to us as who
we will be in the next second, or how we represent people in the other side of the world, that we
also think of them just as much as us as, as, as who we will be in the next, next second. So I think
like it comes to having to, in a sense, like reengineer how, how our world simulations, internal
experiences are, are created. And yeah, I mean, like a pro social future where we have one against
pure replicators, I think, will necessarily be implemented with very different experiences
that right now our experiences are these egocentric, self-centered
quasi God experience where we basically feel that we are the center of the universe. But,
yeah, I mean, the experiences of the future, once we transition, hopefully,
into a consciousness focused ethics, we will not actually feel like the center of the universe.
We will feel that, in a sense, everything around us is, is part of ourselves. It's,
yeah, very different experience. I think, I mean, I am, I don't want to sound like a jerk or anything,
but there are extremely few people in the world who I regard as, as important as me one second
from now, right? Like, I would do a lot in service of keeping me one second from now alive and healthy
and such. But I think if you were, if you were to modify me so that I feel that same way about
everyone who's alive, like, I'm not even sure I would still be me that much. I mean, I would
like to care about other people that much. But being, being concerned about my own welfare is also
kind of part of who I am. I mean, that's a, that's a good point. I would say that there's a way of
seeing this where basically that feeling is itself a pure replicator feeling.
Yeah, you can shed that, that core selfishness as part of your, your central personality,
Niyash. Right. No, I mean, I'm kidding. I'm not, I think, I think there's a lot of people in the
world that I like, but I just, I don't see, you know, everyone in the world being that.
No, no, no, I'm giving you a hard time. I think, I think what, what the case might be here is that
there are ways, whether aided through the assistance of drugs or not to view your relation to other
people in less of a eucentric way. You know, we're helping somebody is like helping yourself.
And it's really, I think it's probably easier to feel that way through the influence of
drugs like, you know, MDMA or DMT or drugs like Buddhism. But yeah, I feel what you're saying
that if you, and if you modified away from your current state where you really care about yourself
in the future, you might feel less like you. And I think that the reply might be that's kind of the
point. I'm not saying I agree with that. But I think that's what they might say. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
it's all exactly. I, that's exactly right, Steven. And I mean, the same is when you were three years
old, I definitely know that when I was three years old, I did not care about what would happen the
next day, right? Like my entire world consisted of today. And of course, you do a lot of regrettable
decisions when you have that kind of representation for how the world works. But I think like
expanding your sense of self to include who you will be the next year. It's a different kind,
it's a similar kind of operation as it's going to happen with these other like consciousness focused
states of mind. But yeah, I mean, like, in a sense, like, we are chronically delusional.
And we are so because there are some delusions that are evolutionarily advantageous. So I mean,
I wouldn't blame anybody for, for identifying only with themselves or, or preferentially caring
about themselves precisely because that's how the world feels like from the inside from those
points of view. I mean, that's, it's not one's fault that that one is under the spell of an
evolutionarily adaptive delusion. Well, I mean, I also feel like that people who are themselves
have a much greater ability generally to, to improve their lives than I do, because I mean,
for starters, I can't physically move their body. But being less facetious, it's just,
it's much harder for me to, to do something that'll affect someone very far away. So it sort of makes
sense to be more concerned with your own local area, starting, I guess, sort of with your body,
because that is what you have the most ability to improve.
Yes. I mean, that's, that's very much the case when it comes to kind of like the
instrumental value of different moments of experience, different here's and now's.
We definitely can't affect the past, for example, even though we, if we take physics seriously,
the past, you know, is still there. It hasn't disappeared.
But yeah, I mean, the fact that we can't do anything about it, I mean, I would say, ideally,
we should care about it intellectually in the sense of like, hey, let's,
you know, if we could go back in time, we should probably try to help and do rescue missions, but
because we can't, we should probably not, you know, feel too bad about the things that
happened in the past. It's just not, not very instrumentally useful.
Okay, we are actually quite a bit over one hour, so I should, we should probably wrap this up.
Thank you for talking with us. Is there anything you wanted to, to say to add at the end here?
Or anything that we really should have gotten into that we didn't?
No, I think, I think, I think we covered a lot of ground. And yeah, I mean, I'll send you the,
yeah, the links for people who want to take a closer look at it. So yeah, that sounds great.
This is a really fun conversation. Thank you so much.
Thank you so much. Yeah, it was wonderful. Thank you so much for having me.
All right. Thank you. And maybe we can do it again sometime because it went by pretty fast.
Yeah, I feel like we have a lot of ground left to cover.
That's right. All right.
Great. Well, thanks again.
Cool. Take care.
Have a good evening.
And cut.
All right.
All right.
So we just wrapped up with Andres, which was really fun.
We did keep talking after, well, basically he had said and seen or stop or whatever,
and fight, stopped recording. He stopped recording.
Inyosh being the one with forethought didn't stop recording.
Inyosh never stopped recording.
And the one with software that wouldn't let him stop recording without hanging up.
So we got about another 15, 20 minutes worth of audio that all comes through in one,
like, Skype 10.3 recorder. So it's going to sound different.
And for that reason, we're not going to mash it into this episode,
but we'll put it up for the patron only content on the Patreon page.
Yeah. Yeah.
So if you'd like to hear some more, they talk about things about depression and the
God helmet and a few other things. It was also interesting stuff.
Yeah. And yeah, I think we're just going to dive into the,
how we can do some listening feedback if we have the time and energy, but we need to do our...
I don't think we do because we've spent like over an hour with Andres,
and then we're going to do the less wrong posts.
And I think we should just call it an episode after that.
Well, in that case, we do have lots of listening feedback that's getting up on our backlog.
I don't know if we've done any of the last couple of episodes.
So we'll chug through. Bear in mind, we do read absolutely everything,
but it's rare that we get a chance to respond to it.
So thanks for writing stuff in and being active on the subreddit and stuff.
But not everything has time for...
Or we don't have time for...
We don't have airtime for everything is what I'm trying to say.
Yeah. Exactly.
All right. Let's go on to our sequences then.
Sounds good to me. What are our two posts for today, Yash?
Our two posts are the proper use of humility and...
Whoops. I just scrolled past that other one.
The modesty argument.
Yes.
Let's begin with the proper use of humility,
since that was chronologically before the other one.
Sounds good.
Proper use of humility.
My take on it was that it was basically a way of saying...
Sometimes people try to tell you to shut up because they don't...
They think you're getting too big for your britches when you talk about
things that threaten their worldview.
It's basically a pre-counter to that, being like,
look, there's a difference between scientific humility and social humility.
And when you try to conflate the two to get people to shut up,
it's a real dick move and you shouldn't do that.
It was my take.
And I'll get into more specifics in just a sec.
What did you think about it?
I sort of took it in another direction, which was left about the...
I mean, LAI's are covered both, but I took more away from it on the personal side,
that the proper use of humility isn't to tell other people to be humble or to signal humility.
And this theme is carried forward in the next post too,
but it's to actually do what you would do if you were alone or if you just wanted to be right.
So I kind of think about the Martian and what Mark Watley does on Mars by himself.
You know, he's not signaling his humility to anybody.
He just wants to be sure.
So he'll double check his math.
He'll think through his problems.
And he's working towards an actual goal there that,
since he cares about the outcome, he's going to be properly humble.
Yeah, that's a damn good example.
You rock, dude.
Right, okay.
So I'm going to add a few quotes that I took from out of it.
One of them was,
consider the creationist who says,
but who can really know whether evolution is correct?
It's just a theory.
You should be more humble and open-minded.
And then it contrasts that with,
the engineer who humbly designs fail-safe mechanisms into machinery,
even though he's damn sure the machinery won't fail.
Which is kind of like what you just brought up with the whole Mark...
God, what was his last name?
Watley.
Mark Watley on Mars, yeah.
And Eliezer goes on says,
consider the student that says,
no, the studying wouldn't really work for me.
I'm not one of the smart kids like you.
One so lowly as myself cannot,
can hope for no better lot.
And Eliezer says that this is social modesty,
not humility.
It has to do with regulating status in the tribe,
rather than scientific process.
He then compares it to the actual scientific type of humility,
where he says that when physicists find a tiny flaw in their math,
they will...
Or in their model.
Or in their model.
Yes, thank you.
In their model, they pursue it to the ends of the earth,
because they aren't okay with it being mostly correct,
or almost entirely correct.
It has to be perfect all the time.
And that some people might call that arrogant,
but it's a source of strength.
He says, the end of era in physics
does not always announce itself with thunder and trumpets.
More often, it begins with what seems like a small, small flaw.
But because physicists have this arrogant idea
that their model should work all the time,
not just most of the time,
they follow up on flaws.
Usually, the small flaw goes away under closer inspection.
Rarely, the flaw widens to the point
where it blows up the whole theory.
