activated that modulating brain activity based on visual stimuli is not as promising as modulated
based on sound. I mean, that's why, you know, like music is the window into the soul, so to
speak, it really produces large effects when it comes to to emotion affect response. And
yeah, so like a lot of our current like experimental research is involves in basically
developing the math for quantifying how pleasant or unpleasant different stimuli are. And this
this kind of ties in with one of our core beliefs, which is valence realism. I mean, this idea that
whether an experience is good or bad is, it's actually an objective matter of fact, just as
much as the rest mass of an electron, or the acceleration of the earth, right, like how much
gravity there is, like there's a matter of fact about it. And likewise, we think there's a matter
of fact about how pleasant or unpleasant a given brain state is, and sound is a very direct way
of modulating brain states. So by analyzing how sounds impact mood, it's a it's a good proxy
for how brain state translates into mood. Interesting. Okay. Did you have anything, Stephen?
Yeah, some of the notes that you've had kind of echo a lot of what Sam Harris talked about in his
book The Moral Landscape, where, you know, they're, I guess, I guess I'm getting hung up on some of
the philosophical bedrock that you're you're resting this on, not because I disagree with it. I think
it's as self-evident as you seem to think it is. But only because the majority of like the
disagreements I have with people on philosophy things come from this kind of argument where,
you know, they could say, well, I don't even know if it's worth getting into me. I think we
did a philosophy episode a couple of years ago. And frankly, if you don't know, or if you disagree
with the statement that like being shot in the foot is worse than, you know, sniffing freshly
baked bread again, then we don't really have a lot to talk about. I think I'll go ahead and just
skip that one. Right. Yeah. I don't know. Anything else that you're working on recently or anything
coming up that you're excited to share or talk about? Yeah, I mean, for sure. So like one of the
things that I really care about is, I mean, outer states of consciousness, again, like for all
sorts of reasons, we are not planning on actually giving, you know, substances to anybody. Like
if we do an experimental paradigm with fMRI, we will just basically append our protocol to somebody
who has the permit to do so. But we do take trip reports very seriously. And like something
that I've been working on for a little while now is basically how to help people write much
better trip reports so that the weird experiences that they had, in a sense, can actually contribute
to science rather than, you know, being like a ranty, a ranty Reddit post about that wild,
you know, wild time you had on LSD and ketamine, but doesn't actually, you know, contribute to
science. And I think like currently trip reports tend to be so bad that helping people do something
that is useful is not that hard. And one of the things that I emphasize is to focus on what I
call the phenomenal character of the experience, what it feels like as opposed to the intentional
content that is what the experience was about. Because people get like very caught up in,
for example, they describe like, oh, they saw like a witch or they saw like, you know, like a crazy
skeleton or they saw a dragon on their LSD trip. But, you know, like, that could be produced in so
many ways, like maybe you were dreaming or maybe you, you were taking a delirant drug or a dissociative,
like there's so many things that can produce the experience of looking at a dragon. The thing that
is going to be very different from one substance to the next is going to be, hey, like what did the
fur of the dragon feel like? How was like the spatial frequency of the patterns? And specifically
things such as how what kind of like symmetry groups were tessellating the walls of the palace
that you went to? Or what is like the particular frequency of the flickering that you were experiencing
and, you know, like the crazy sky that the DMT heat took you to. So there's like a lot of like
actual geometric mathematical features of the experience that are pretty noticeable once you
know what to look for. But people usually completely miss. They get too caught up in the narrative
and they forget to take note of the actual character of the experience. So yeah, that's
something I'm pretty excited about. I mean, I think like, do you have a resource or a link that,
you know, we can send people to to be like, this is the stuff you should look for if you'd like to
do science with acid? Right. Yes, for sure. I'll send you a link to that. I just published an
article about psychedelic Turk. It basically is a, this is just an idea. It hasn't been implemented,
but, but in that article, I linked to a bunch of the other, the other core, core articles about
this. I mean, there's like some ongoing really good research efforts, kind of like in the wild.
I'm a very big fan of this Reddit sub community, the sub Reddit called replications is our
replications, because that basically is like a lot of people who are like super talented in
Photoshop, and who also take high doses of psychedelics, who try to make really good
depictions of what their experience was like. And yeah, I mean, I think like that's super helpful
for for science. Like really, you know, like the differences between DMT and LSD, I don't think
they're inconsequential. And I think they really will will matter a lot for for the future of
consciousness and and trying to really depict them carefully. It's very valuable. Speaking of, I
mean, this has nothing to do with what you were saying, really, but just the word replications
sparked this, this in my mind, you, you were talking or maybe I read this somewhere, you had
very interesting things to say on pure replicators versus like team consciousness or whatever that
is. Yes, that's right. So that's a I mean, if I have like a big picture moral framework for like
how to make sense of reality, I would say that it's not I mean, a lot of people think of reality
is kind of like the battle between good and evil. You know, there's like more sophisticated people
who especially people who take psychedelics and do meditation, who then think of it in terms of
like the balance between good and evil, and they they say things like, you know, being happy all
the time is impossible, because, you know, the light implies the dark and, you know, they get
caught up in these kind of like philosophy of accepting both sides. But when you look at it,
usually they do so as a mood regulation strategy, I mean, they're trying to come to terms with their
suffering. And, and to think that it's necessary, it's a way of dealing with it. But, you know,
it's it's not it's not reality. Like, you do have much better ways to leave than others as
Sam Harris, pointed out by Steven, indeed, has talks talked about, then there's people who are
like one level higher, I call them the gradients of wisdom. And this involves, yeah, people like
Sam Harris, or Shanson Young, or Ken Wilber, who basically agree that there are better states of
consciousness than others that there really is such a thing as pointless suffering, like needless
suffering. That's, I mean, that's part of reality. And we can work to eliminate it. We don't really
lose anything by reducing it. But then there's kind of like this, this, in a sense, like I would say
like very sober, high level framework for making sense of all of morality, which is the battle
between pure replicators and consciousness and pure replicators are basically entities that
are really good at making copies of themselves. But they don't care about anything else. So
when you compare, I mean, a human, for example, usually they do care about making copies of
themselves and sharing their genes in the gene pool with having kids and having affairs.
And even sexual assault can be explained in terms of just a very unethical urge to just
making copies of oneself. But nonetheless, I mean, people still care about being happy,
they care about others being happy, they care about not suffering too much. So in a sense,
humans are not pure replicators. I mean, it so happens that evolution recruited consciousness
for information processing. But then all of a sudden consciousness was implemented in such a
smart way that it's looking after itself rather than just looking after the genes that brought it
here. And I think that's the team I would be rooting for. It would be, hey, let's really take
consciousness as the source of value. And then all of a sudden you see that there's this battle
between patterns that are making copies of themselves in a very efficient way and the
interests of consciousness, which involve happiness and understanding and intelligence and knowledge
and agency. And those are the things that really matter. But if you're kind of like fast forward
the evolutionary process, it seems like we are probably at a pretty delicate moment in history
because there are so many ways in which pure replicators could take over. I mean, obviously,
the scenario of nanotechnology, basically, the gray goo scenario is kind of like a
straightforward case where molecular pure replicators basically transform matter and
energy into just copies of themselves. And as we talked about, that wouldn't be a very valuable
state of the world if there's like no actual subject of experience. And it's just all of these
great goo. But it could happen in many other ways. I mean, I think the age of EM of Robin Hansen
that he talks about it as almost a desirable case, he describes it as. I mean, I think it's a
horrible case where economic selection pressures pushes basically just people who are willing to
be slaves for their entire lives to be the the bulk of experience in reality. So that yeah, that's
a how do you fight against that? He said that I just wanted to say to be to be fair when we
pressed Robin on that he didn't say that he thought it was desirable, just that he thought it was
realistic. Right. Right. So he talked a lot about it, not because he wanted it, but because he thought
it was likely. I just figured out I'd plug that for him. That's right. Maybe he was. Yeah, maybe
he was feeling like the people that are like, yeah, the evil is necessary, as a part of trying to
deal with their suffering. He's like, yep, ms ms are necessary stage just to deal with the the
suffering beforehand. But but how do you fight against something like because they won't they
eventually outcompete you the people who are willing to make those sacrifices? They will if
there is no pushback. But I think I mean, there is some level of pushback. I mean, we and I think
we can increase that level of pushback. I think like a really core weapon. I mean, and actually
it's not so much weapon because it may be the truth. Although it sounds very weird. But I think
like a really important weapon here is personal identity. Basically, you know, like, especially
on psychedelic states, but also if you do a lot of meditation, or even if you do a lot of philosophy,
you can go into the state of consciousness where you you feel that we're all the same
consciousness or like we're all kind of like different facets of God. And this is definitely
very common in mystical traditions and in cults. But but also, you know, there's a lot of philosophy
that justifies the view that that it's likely that we are all one consciousness in, although it's,
it's a very complex way in in exactly why how that manifests. But yeah, I mean, if you identify
with consciousness and you identify with, in a sense, the the quality of experience, you will
recognize that who you will be in in 10 seconds matters just as much as who somebody is somebody
else is currently. And if you take that point of view, then there's a reason to in a sense try to
help consciousness as a whole. And if there is a method that basically makes people believe that
they are, you know, the universal consciousness, as opposed to their individual genes, then like
that that method is going to be very useful in the battle between consciousness and replicators.
And I think like, I mean, there's very promising leads for these, for example, five MEO DMT, which
is similar to DMT in the sense that is something that you usually vaporize and the experience
only lasts five minutes. But what's remarkable about five MEO DMT is that in about maybe 60%
of the cases, it makes people have this weird experience of quote unquote, realizing that
that they are God, and that everything is God. And they become a lot more altruistic and a lot
more interested in helping the environment and helping the world and the long term future of
Earth, once they've had that experience. And I think like, really, in a sense, standardizing it
and getting to the point that you have an extremely reliable way of making people feel that we are
all one consciousness is going to be perhaps the key weapon against replicators, because
that will allow us to yeah, basically not be afraid to modify ourselves. Yep. Go ahead.
Hasn't, hasn't religion been trying to do something like that for, you know, since the
beginning of religion, though? And I mean, I don't, I don't like the
I don't like the idea of having, having to, you know, convince people that they're actually
all the same person. I mean, isn't there a isn't there a more honest way of making people be good
and helping each other? I'm just picturing something kind of like the Batman begins plot where
Scarecrow puts that fear juice in the public water supply to do that with with this DMT.
Everybody, everybody becomes everybody else and then the world becomes a nice clean place.
Right. Everyone has any supervillain ambitions. That sounds like the way to go.
Yes. Well, I'm kidding. No one do that. Of course. It's a, it would be interesting, but
no, I'm definitely in favor of, you know, consensual experiences. And I think the problem here is that
I mean, you can argue philosophy all you want with a lot of people and they will come to the
point where they say like, okay, your philosophical case for oneness is pretty strong, but I don't
feel it. And because I don't feel it, I'm not, I can't really act on it. I will, in a sense,
kind of like secretly still just, just want the best for, for my genes. And they can use this
kind of experiences as a way of actually setting their own internal emotions in that direction.
Once they already agreed that this makes sense intellectually. And I think, I think, yeah,
that's a very promising way of approaching it. Likewise, I mean, I really, it's kind of like
a twin approach because just knowing that everything is one doesn't in itself solve the
problems because you could still have that state of consciousness, but being a state of suffering
or have that state of consciousness and, and feel despair because you experience depression,
or, or you know that the hedonic treadmill will make sure that even if everybody's reach, you
know, a fraction of people will always be miserable no matter what. So I think like it's,
it's the trick is on combining states of consciousness that makes you feel the truth
of oneness combined with or followed by things like MDMA like states of consciousness that
also show them, show you that there's hyper valuable states. So in a sense, there is,
like the value is to be shared because we're all one, but then there is value and there is,
there is something to protect. And that's something that you can only really know once you
actually experience it. And yeah, I mean, I think like the, the, the way in which these, these would
ultimately play out, it would be in a sense a battle between people who believe we're all one
consciousness and, and, and people who really just identify with their own ethnicity or with
their own race or their own, you know, gender or their own future selves. And yeah, I mean,
there's also going to be in a sense like dark magic or black magic on the other side when it comes to
making you be really afraid of death, for example, giving you the experience that like no,
you're alone in this universe and separate. And yeah, so I mean, I think, I think like
having, having tools that favor you identify with consciousness is going to be really,
really key, really keen here. Do you have any ideas of how to prevent the slide into becoming
peer replicators? Because it's not like, you know, we see the peer replicator robots and we can fight
them directly. It's more like the individual choices people make every day as to whether they,
like I personally, whether I choose to, to suppress my, some of my endeavors so that I
can like make money faster, better, so I can, in theory, be, be more comfortable in the future.
But every, every little thing that you sacrifice for that time away from the people that you love
pushes you closer to replicator and further away from consciousness. And
how, I mean, I remember reading that the Amish aren't technically anti-technology
on principle. They just have this ideal where whenever a new piece of technology is introduced
into the world, their, I don't know, most learned among them will go and analyze it for months at
a time sometimes and, you know, decide is this technology that will enrich our lives or that
will strip us of some of our humanity and compassion. And if they decide the latter,
then they banned that technology. And that's why they use some things, like cement blocks, but
not others, like, you know, gasoline motors. Yeah.
Yeah, I want to, I want to see their, I want to see their work here.
I think they've made the wrong call a few times.
I mean, I wonder what the work would look like, you know, vaccines or something too, you know,
but I could kind of see that's, that's painting your human experience or whatever.
But I want to see the case that allows cinder blocks if it doesn't allow but.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, but like, so how do we, how do we find that?
No, you're absolutely right. I mean, this is an open problem. I should be clear about that.
And I'm, I'm open for, for suggestions. It really interests me to, to hear, hear options.
But I mean, yeah, like, it gets super complicated when you consider game theory and the fact that
even if you don't act on a given technology out of ethical caution, somebody who has a,
you know, lower threshold for, for what they perceive to be dangerous will act on it. And
uh, yeah, like that, all of those dynamics don't, don't seem very hopeful.
