Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a special guest from, well, Inyash want to introduce
our guest.
Yes, our guest is Andres Gomez Emilsson.
And Andres is with us today from the Kualya Research Institute.
I apparently have a tradition of once a year I meet someone at Burning Man and then I have
to have them on as a guest because they're doing something really interesting.
And this year it is Andres.
So welcome to the show.
Excellent, thank you so much for having me.
Now before we start, when I heard that you were at the Kualya Research Institute, I was
very confused because in my, as far as I know, Kualya is the, an abstract concept, right?
It's like the quality of what an experience feels like.
Right.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, like one way I tend to define it is, yeah, basically like the raw way in which
experience presents itself, even, you know, like even before we give it a name or even
before we do something with the experience, just the way in which it feels like the blueness
of blue.
And I mean, I think like the first moment, yeah, yeah, it's kind of like when you were
a kid and maybe you're one bird, like, is the blue that I see the same blue that others
see?
So like that's, like that quality would be the quality of blue that you can't describe
to others.
Right.
That's, that's what I always heard.
And I mean, after a while I figured it wasn't worth thinking about too much.
They're probably more or less the same blue unless you're colorblind or something.
But like, it always seemed to me an abstract concept, like, like a Udill or something, like
not something that actually exists in the world.
There's, you know, neurons firing in the brain, which, which corresponds to wavelengths
sitting my retina, but there's not like, there's no actual blueness in the same way
that there's no actual platonic form of a chair, right?
Or, or am I thinking about things completely wrong?
What now?
I said, you're not denying that you're not denying the existence of quality.
Are you?
You don't, you have experiences, right?
I am kind of denying the existence as a, like, as I don't know, I, apparently I have a misunderstanding
of what qualia is because, or are you denying it as scientifically investigatable?
Yeah.
So that's why I was like, what am I misunderstanding here?
What is, are you using qualia in a different way or am I wrong about something?
I mean, that's a, that is a great question.
I mean, like the, the term qualia is definitely controversial in philosophy of mind.
And it's an incredibly confusing term.
However, I think it kind of like a qualia centric view of, of the world in a sense like
grounds meaning in a way that nothing else does.
So when you, you can try to, in a sense, like ground, like meaning, like kind of like, what
is it that we're actually talking about when we talk about things, you can try to ground
it in the outside world.
And in which case, yes, you might be concerned about, Hey, there's no, there's no actual,
you know, like platonic chair anywhere.
Chairs don't, don't really exist.
They, they are kind of like this aggregate, you know, they, they may be functionally distinct,
but they don't kind of like have a existence of their own.
And if you kind of like start with that kind of ontology, then yes, like qualia will sound
like an extraordinarily abstract and diffuse concept with no kind of like a ground truth.
But you can also kind of like start from the complete opposite end and say, well, my experience
is the one thing that I am certain exists and its properties present themselves.
And they are the, in a sense, like the one thing that I know what it feels like.
I don't know how you may experience the world and I don't know how like a pig or maybe an
AI might experience the world, but I certainly know what my visual field looks like and what
it feels like.
And in a sense, like you can reconstruct what meaning is in terms of qualia, such that in
a sense, whenever we talk about the external world is a roundabout way about to talk about
our inner experience.
So yeah, that's kind of like a different, different paradigm for how to, how to approach
meaning and is the one I tend to resonate with.
So it's a, it's a, you're using that as a way to measure meaning in life?
Right.
So like what do things actually mean?
So is there ever like any hope of referring to anything that isn't ultimately grounded
in experience?
I mean, like if you were to talk about like, you know, like an abstract entity, but whose
properties never, never are experienced in any way, shape or form.
What is it really that we're talking about?
On the other hand, if let's say you describe a play and you say that, hey, like I really
like the, the lighting, I really liked how, you know, the sounds emphasize the emotions
of the characters.
See, in a sense, you can make sense of what you're saying in terms of how the play affected
your experience.
So in a way, whenever we talk about something in as much as talking about it is meaningful,
that's because it influences the quality of our experiences.
I don't know if this, this makes sense or resonates in any way.
No, I think it does to me.
I think what you're, if I'm not reading too much into this, that meaning comes from the
experience of conscious things that there's, that it's not meaning, like rocks don't have
meaningful experiences because they don't have experiences at all.
Kind of the difference between like a Roomba and a House Elf, you know, one just does things
as a robot without any quality at all, whereas the House Elf from Harry Potter, and I use
that because it's like a Roomba, clean your house while having experience of doing so
and can have fun or not doing it, right?
Right.
Yeah.
And I mean, in a sense, like I am generally of the mindset that if anything matters in
the universe, it will come down to whether the states of consciousness in the universe
are something that we find valuable or not.
It seems kind of like hard, hard to define like what it would be for something to even
mean something if nobody experiences it or anybody has, nobody has like an actual representation
of it.
Right.
Hmm.
I have always felt basically the same way that without, without conscious life, nothing
has any value at all, not because it is, you know, bad or anything, it just conscious
beings are what give value to to the universe.
That's right.
Yes.
And I mean, that's a, yeah, that's kind of like a consciousness focused ethics.
And I mean, it's definitely controversial, but I would, I would pretty solidly.
Wait, wait, wait.
Yeah.
It's controversial.
It actually, it actually is to some extent, there is some people who question it.
I, I do have some friends and I know of some philosophers who, who would say things such
as that if you imagine a universe that, you know, there's nobody in there, there's no
sense in being in there, but there are like these incredible, beautiful crystals and worlds
with, you know, like magma fountains and like awesome incredible things that they are, they're
not sure that that, that that is valueless, even though nobody experiences it.
Whereas to me, it's, it's crazy to think that they could, that it could possibly have any
value at all.
If there's like nobody there.
I mean, the only, the only reason the thought experiment has any value is because we're
like thinking about how beautiful those crystals and magma flows are, right?
Right.
If we weren't thinking about them, they would have no value at all.
That's right.
Yes.
It's almost kind of like the value of that world comes from the fact that it makes us
imagine pretty pictures, but not from its intrinsic existence.
Yeah.
I had, I did not realize there were people that felt otherwise.
That seems like a very strange position to take.
Stephen, are you, how do you feel about this?
I don't think I've ever asked you.
I think it's clear that I agree with you guys that, I mean, there's nothing, you know, if
the universe is full of beautiful crystals and magma rivers and whatever, it's like,
that's only pretty imagery because it's pretty imagery for us to imagine.
It might as well be a universe of just rocks.
I think the only way that has any value whatsoever is if it's like our universe pre-life, right?
Where the universe churns enough to build some self-replicating molecules that eventually
start caring about the universe.
I think it's not the much people think that, at least in my understanding of this position,
I don't think that it's, that people think that this is super valuable or desirable,
just that it's better than nothing.
And I guess, to me, it's about tantamount to nothing, right?
Yeah.
The universe no lights on might as well not exist, but I guess if I had to pick between,
you know, creating universe with, you know, or I guess not creating universe and creating
universe with just cool rocks, then I'd choose the second one.
But that's probably just my taste and has nothing to do with what actually matters.
Yeah.
You're just choosing that one because it would give you something to do to create a universe
with rocks.
Yeah, exactly.
So, so what do you do at the Kuali Institute?
I'm curious about what, I don't want to take us off this derailment, but I want to, since
we do have a limited amount of time, I'm really curious about what the Kuali Institute, Kualia
Research Institute does and what your role is there and that sort of thing.
Yeah, for sure.
So, I mean, I think like the discussion we are having, it's a, it's a wonderful kind
of like way of kind of like warming us up to, to actually what the Kuali Research Institute
is.
And the reason is that, yes, I mean, if you have a kind of like a consciousness centric
theory of value and of meaning, and you take that to heart, you come to the conclusion
that in a sense, the most effective way of actually improving the world would be to improve
our experiences.
And I mean, it's definitely the case that a lot of, you know, like interventions in
the world, either via charities or, you know, even, even like in the profit sector, that
all of those work to improve the world because they improve people's experiences.
I mean, definitely not, not having malaria, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a big improvement
on, on having it in terms of, you know, your experiences, the fact that you're likely to,
to continue to leave and yeah, just like not, not suffering, suffering needlessly.
But then when, when it comes to, you know, like trying to solve the problem in, in a
big scale, you will, you will have to come to terms with the fact that there's a very
big part of suffering that it's fairly independent from the actual external environment and kind
of the, the configuration of the world.
And I think like there's maybe the best example for, for these has to do with people who are
genetically predisposed to, to be depressed or have a high levels of anxiety.
I mean, we, we know by now that there are specific genes that modulate things like pain
thresholds.
If you have a one of the variants of the NCN9A gene that basically reduces your pain
threshold, you end up having a very miserable existence where you are in pain all the time,
but also you're in psychological distress all the time.
On the other hand, there's also other variants of the gene where you, you have a higher pain
threshold and people who, who have that variant tend to be very happy and successful in, in
the, in the modern world at the very least.
And, and then there's like people who have another variant that basically eliminates
pain completely.
And, and that is a maladaptive variant because people who, who have it don't tend to have
a very high life expectancy because they, they, they, I mean, they bump into things
and they get hurt all the time without realizing it.
But it does seem to be the case that having a higher pain threshold, all else being equal
tends to drastically improve the quality of people's lives.
And it's, it's, it's things like that, that, that suggests in a sense that in a sense like
the bulk of suffering can be explained in, in terms of it being evolutionarily advantageous
in the ancestral environment and also being to a large extent genetically determined.
And, and with, with that kind of insight, really trying to do in a sense like surgery
into our experiences to, to improve them seem to be a much more effective way of improving
the world than just like changing our environment.
