times. Therefore it is written. Do not believe what you do to others as a favor. If you accept
their arguments, the favor is to you. Yeah, I wanted to pull that one out because that was,
I thought that was like the, the best part of this post that you pointed out that
a lot of people consider it like a favor to adopt someone else's belief that you're doing them a favor.
Uh, it's like an equal compromise, you know? Uh, and Eliezer points out that that, that's wrong.
If you adopt someone else's belief, you aren't doing them a favor, you are doing
yourself a favor because it means you have judged their belief to be closer to the truth
than what your previous belief was. And therefore you are making yourself stronger and your map
more accurate by adopting a belief that is more accurate. So you're doing yourself a favor when
you, uh, when you change your belief. And if you're only doing it for social signaling reasons,
then you're, you're not doing anyone a favor at all. You are making your map less accurate and you
are making yourself weaker by doing that. So don't do that. Yeah. That, I mean,
I don't have anything to add to that other than an agreement noise. I'm nodding from,
from my house. We're recording in different places since we got a guest and it's complicated to do it.
And so. Oh, also, um, Stephen is using a new microphone and, uh, let us know if, if, you know,
it's okay because, uh, it's, it's one he can walk around with, but we're not sure about the quality
of it. Yeah. I was going to plug that and see if anyone really, I was going to listen to it
myself and kind of just gauge, but if it's tolerable, this mic's pretty good and it's somewhat
affordable. So if it's nice, I'd like to keep using it, but I, I'm already getting the impression
I'm not going to, it, I think I sound like I'm on a phone call. Um, okay. It doesn't sound good
from my end, but I mean that might be just because of Skype. I don't know. Part of that Skype,
I played back to my own audio too. So what was the other sounds? Um, also of note, I think that
this is, uh, this post is the first time he hints at the map territory distinction before he
actually lays it out in, you know, all its glory later on, but he does mention that, uh, if I sit
in my living room with the curtains drawn and make up five maps that are consistent with each other,
but I don't actually walk around the city and make lines on paper that correspond to what I see,
then my maps will not be consistent, then my maps will be consistent, but not accurate. I was like,
oh look, first shades of the map territory thing that we'll talk about later. That's one of the
things that we as rationalists love talking about, which reminds me, did he, did he, uh,
coin that or is that just something that he popularized in his stuff? Uh, I believe he said
that he first read about it in an old science fiction novel called The World of Nell A. Um,
but I think he's the one that like made it popular. Well, give him like the kind of Richard
Dawkins with memes credit where it was a thing that existed, but now it means something more
popular and widespread. Yeah. All right, fair enough. Cool. Okay. So that's everything I had.
Did you have more on this? Yeah. Um, no. Oh wait, I guess you have this thing down here about the,
the true story of a customer. Yeah. Right. I remember this, I remember this went around. Um,
there was a guy who, uh, had, I had a, uh, wireless service plan that's, um, it said that it would
be 0.02 cents per, I don't remember kilobyte to theta was much more expensive back in the day.
And so he called up their customer service before he went to you. This was a Roman char,
roaming charge in Europe. And so he called up before he left for his vacation. He's like,
I just want to make sure it says here 0.02 cents. Are you sure that's 0.02 cents and not 0.02 dollars?
Because 0.02 dollars is two cents, which is what I think you mean. Uh, even though the paperwork
says 0.02 cents and they're like, Oh, no, no, no, we mean 0.02 cents. He's like, really? They're
like, yeah, I was like, okay. And, uh, then he gets the bill and it's literally 100 times greater
than it should be. And so they were obviously charging him two cents per kilobyte or 0.02 dollars.
And so he called them up. There's a wonderful transcript because he goes up through like
four levels of customer service where every single person cannot grasp the difference between
0.02 dollars and 0.02 cents. And, uh, there's, there's a quote here where he's talking to,
I think this is a one of the high level managers. He says, do you recognize that there's a difference
between 0.002 dollars and 0.002 cents? And the answer is no.
Which, you know, you, no matter, you're just not going to update your belief to,
once you've gone through four people to be like, well, four people say there's no difference
between those two. So maybe there isn't any difference. Like, you'd know there's a difference
between 0.02 dollars and 0.02 cents. Well, except this is the case. I'm thinking of this guy one.
I don't remember. Did he in the end? I mean, he must have. He had the paperwork, right?
I definitely heard about, yeah, I definitely heard about this before. This was only a few years ago
and this guy won his case. Okay, good. So this is different than, you know,
just talking with one person who refuses to budge. Because he's explaining to different people.
And at the end of the day, you can escalate to lawyers who can actually read. So, yeah.
Yeah, this was, but this is a meditation in patients, maybe?
I just, I can't imagine what that must be like, like how crazy you would go. Because how, how,
how else do you get through to someone that dollars are not the same as cents, you know?
It is bizarre that, I mean, there's, there's only one way to say it, right?
Yeah, I think it's because I think people don't see like, on a gut level, as cents, as like
fractions of dollars. I know that they, let me, I think that there's a way to like make that
not clear. Like I remember when I went to Japan, you know, it's sort of bizarre that you can spend
$250 on it, or 250 yen on a soda, right? Because to me, it was like $250. But all they have to
keep in mind is that they don't have hundreds of dollars in their currency. Yeah. Yeah. So, well,
it's like whatever 90 cents, or what, 90 cents to 100 yen or something. But whatever it is, it's,
it's, it's like if I was buying stuff for 250 cents, rather than $2 and 50 cents,
yeah, or $2.5. So maybe there's the unintuitive leap with the, you know, the overworked and under,
underfed and undernourished, you know, temps answering the phones at Verizon where they're
just like, fuck it, man, I don't know. I don't know. I've been on the phone for 10 hours. I don't
have anything left to me that can do math right now. They look at it, they see .002 and like,
they don't glance at the units. And I don't know, have you ever worked in mines and I'm in customer
service job? That's exactly what it feels like. So I kind of see why he had to find it at the top
to fix this. Depending, I guess, on what time he called. You know, I think maybe your best bet
would be calling it like nine in the morning. But I'm curious if there's, I wonder, I haven't
clicked the transcript. Does it say what time the call began? I'm all over it because if it says it's,
it does not say what time the call was. That's okay. Oh, nope. Good evening. Haha.
Hey. Yeah. At the end of the day, you don't have anything left in you for math. You do customer
service. Good luck if you walk in with it first thing in the morning. Right. Well, I don't have
anything else to add to this one unless I think we ought to thank the patron this episode and
Oh, before we do that, let's let people know what the next two will be. Oh, yeah. Next two posts.
Yeah. And two weeks time, we will be doing I don't know and a fable of science and politics.
And we'll have links to both of those on the Bayesian conspiracy.com. Yep. So give us a
shout if you want to continue with our read through of these, it'll only take us at this rate,
like five more years. Right. So cool. That's great. Oh, this week, we would like to think
thus to maybe gusto. I'm not sure exactly. But our patron gusto for helping to bring this episode
to all of you guys. Thanks. And when we do buy new mic equipment and stuff that'll become that'll
be because of people like you and we really appreciate it. And you know, like I said,
every time no pressure to donate, it's always nice. And it means a lot. And it is just
I don't know, something that, you know, keeps us excited about, you know, I don't know,
I ramble every time at this point, because it makes me feel comfortable that people care about
enough this to throw some money at it. But thank you, it does mean a lot. I mean,
someone flusters me. Yeah, one of these days, you know, I want to get some better equipment,
maybe even like, you know, some studio equipment to soundproof rooms a bit. Oh,
shit. Well, I mean, you know, we could just do like milk cartons on a stand or something,
whatever it is, but you know, little things that, you know, be 50 bucks or whatever. But
I'm also trying to think of more patron benefits. So, you know, like sort of releasing content
for this episode. Another thing I was thinking was that to release the audio for the episode,
as soon as it's available on patreon.com, which full disclosure is often Tuesday night.
Yes, it'll be only a few hours earlier.
And sometimes a few hours earlier, but sometimes it might be a few days.
That's true. There has been a few times where we were like four weeks ahead of schedule,
which was, I mean, it's rare, but it has happened.
One of the days we sit back down and get caught up and get a proper back lock again. But
yes, this one's going out in, what, nine days? So once I get the audio from Andres and all that,
then I can start editing. But anyway, of course, you guys won't hear all this one until Thursday
or until Wednesday anyway. So yes, anyway, we want to do some more pretty exclusive stuff.
So if you guys can think of anything that, if you guys have any suggestions,
roll one of those. You can reach us at the subreddit. There's an AMA thread.
There'll be a thread for this episode. There's the email address,
Asian conspiracy podcast at gmail.com. And there's the website, Asian conspiracy,
or the Asian conspiracy, right? Yep. Yep. Perfect. It's not podcast. Yeah.
Cool. All right. Well, in that case, I think we're all wrapped up.
Yeah. Yeah. All set. Then I am now at the rambling stage of my evening brain juice.
So we should just wrap up and call it a night.
Cool. I'll see you in a week. Thanks. Bye-bye. Bye.
