So, yes, that's kind of like,
So do you mean, do you mean things like giving people, I don't know, Soma or equivalent sort
of drugs just to make them feel happier or what, what does, what does this sort of surgery
entail?
Right.
One important thing is to remain economically useful and also to remain in a sense capable
of reproducing and continuing to, to pass on pro-social patterns into the world.
And that in a sense like rules out any kind of intervention that's, that just generates
a uniform happiness.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
So we're, we're not interested in, in Soma for, for that reason or, or in a sense like
a lot of kind of like recreational agents that, you know, can be used as proofs of concept
for what kind of states of consciousness we may have in the future.
A lot of them like are not very promising.
I mean, things such as hard opioids or hard stimulants, they don't have a very good psychological
effect on people.
I mean, it makes them very dysfunctional in one way or another.
But if you look at, for example, states of consciousness, like those induced by MDMA,
you will realize that, Hey, like this is a state of consciousness that is both more
pleasant and also more pro-social.
And in a sense, it doesn't drastically disrupt your preference architecture.
I mean, like there are some people, you know, who will take MDMA and just lay on the couch
and just do nothing.
But for most people, it makes them very sociable and, and one, two, in a sense interact with
the world and gives them this feeling that they love the world and the world loves them.
And, and it's a, yeah, it's a drastic improvement, at least relative to the quality of experiencing.
It doesn't come with kind of the, the functional cost of just, you know, kind of like wire
heading or just being a couch potato the rest of your life.
So that's, that's the sort of states of consciousness that we, we are very interested in figuring
out how to replicate in a healthy and sustainable way so that we can have them whenever we need
them.
I can attest from personal experience, of course, I'm saying this disclaimer that I've
never tried drugs.
That's, you know, but if the FDA ever asks, I've never tried drugs.
But if I had tried drugs, MDMA definitely works like you described.
And I think one thing that it doesn't do is make me want to go to, go to work and sit
at my desk.
Right.
So it's, it's disruptive to my preference order in that on a mild enough dose to actually
enjoy it.
But I, I'm not trying to say I should have organized this thought.
It just up some of my preferences in that the idea of going to work for eight hours and
earning enough money to keep the lights on doesn't sound super appealing.
You just want to hang out and talk and be social and be connected with people.
But it does violate some of your other preferences, like that, you know, to stay, you know, housed
and clothed.
Right.
But I guess what you're saying is that this isn't, this isn't the end state you're trying
to, to give people this is an example of a kind of thing that is closer to the bullseye
than something that makes you just, I think, orgasmium is the term that occasionally comes
up in, in the, in the literature on this side.
So you're not just laying around in total bliss, please start with that, that's a happy,
you know, blob, but you're, you're able to have goals and interaction and stuff.
Okay.
That's what you're saying.
I didn't mean to be real.
I'm just trying to keep up.
No, that's, that's, that's exactly right.
I mean, yes.
And I mean, MDMA is like states of consciousness or just proofs of concept.
Definitely you want to be able to modulate as well, things such as, you know, like the
level of motivation and also very crucially is your time horizons.
I mean, the, something that empirically MDMA does, does seem to do is that it makes people
feel that kind of like the, they're immediate kind of like bubble of reality, like everything
that's only within, you know, like 10 feet around them.
It's kind of like the, the thing that is actually real and they treat it as such.
So they may not be very concerned about, you know, when, when they get retired or, you
know, not being fired from, from, from, from one's job and, and so on.
But, but I think, yeah, all of those are tweakable parameters.
And yes, the, this is just a proof of concept for now.
Yeah.
I liked that a lot.
I think that, that's fine.
That's what I was looking for.
That's a good proof of concept of saying, look, there are states of consciousness that are
desirable and it's the sort of kind of thing.
Okay.
I do.
I perfect.
Hit that beat for a second.
Yes.
So is the first step trying to figure out what these states are?
Right.
Like what they look like?
Yes.
Okay.
Let me say kind of a two, two kind of like very broad introductory aspects to the Higualia
Research Institute.
So yeah, I mean, like the, the, the first aspect is basically what are kind of like the very
broad things that we do and objectives.
I mean, the, the very first one is foundational research on consciousness with a special
emphasis on the pleasure pain axis to figure out basically what makes an experience positive
or negative or mixed or, or neutral.
The second thing that we do is generate technology.
I mean, that would have, I mean, we definitely don't, don't use anything illegal, but we
are interested in interventions such as Michael Persinger's, the God helmet, basically these
sort of electromagnetic pulses that can target brain areas and produce interesting states
of consciousness in fairly, fairly reliable ways.
But, but yeah, we're very interested in consciousness technologies.
And finally, we're interested in community building.
We think the really, the really is a need for kind of like a broader community of people
who are thinking in terms of, you know, paradise engineering via transforming our consciousness
in a, in a reliable way and sustainable way with, with technology.
Now in the first, first aspect, kind of like what is like the foundational, you know, foundational
consciousness research there as well, I would say subdivided into three things.
So the first one is defined a state space of consciousness.
I mean, that is basically mapping out what is the set of all possible experiences that
exist.
I mean, obviously this is a insanely ambitious task and I don't think we will be done in
thousands of years, but somebody has to start it.
I mean, there's like some projects that have a related interests, but I think like having
like an ambitious goal, kind of like a wiki consciousness where we map out the entire
state space is a, is very good.
It kind of like pushes us in the right direction.
This wouldn't, wouldn't different, oh, sorry, wouldn't different people's experiences of
the same things be different, though, and so lead to different, different maps, right?
So the range of possible experiences that are accessible to a given human will definitely
be a subset of the, of the range of conscious experiences that are possible in the, in the
abstract.
So, and I mean, that kind of like gets, you can nest that in a sense by, by then like
looking at the range of experiences that a person sober can access versus the range of
experiences the same person on psychedelics can access and, and so on and so forth.
What we're interested in is kind of like the broader state space of consciousness.
And I mean, there's reason to, to believe that at least like some simple experiences
and I mean, we can, we could go into what I mean by, by a simple experience, but there's
like a lot of low information experiences that I suspect that basically many different
people can experience it and it will be very, very similar across, across people.
And if you have like different brains, as long as you can emulate that particular low
information experience is going to be basically the same.
I don't know if that
Is that something like seeing the color red?
Yeah, I mean, imagine like an experience could be one where your entire visual field
is covered with red and all of your attention or at least like 90% of your attention is
focused on the quality of your visual field.
So yeah, like that's, I mean, that, that is like sufficiently simple that you don't get
this combinatorial explosion where the unique features of your brain kind of like show up
and then, then okay, yes, unique experiences that others are never going to be able to
have, except you will appear, but, and yeah, I mean, that this definitely gets complicated
by the fact that people's brains are different, I mean, in all sorts of ways, I mean, as,
as I mentioned, like people's genes, whether they have the SCN9A gene will make their
experience of pain very different, let alone, I'm sure there's like very huge differences
in terms of like what kind of smells are accessible to you and what kind of the way in which emotions
feel, which is different from, from person to person and, and definitely how you react
to, to psychedelics. I mean, LSD is very unlikely to be the same drug from, from one person
to, to another, just in terms of, I mean, just considering that something like LSD affects
20 different neurotransmitters, receptor types, and then people's have different concentrations
for those receptor types. And yes, so the same drug is probably very different for, for
each individual. And, and so on. So yeah, it's a, it's a huge combinatorial explosion of
possible experiences.
Do you have like a quick, a quick reply to the, the philosophical skeptic who would say, Oh, you
can't know if my experience of red is like yours. I have one in mind, but I'm curious what your
kind of reply would be.
Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
Just to that, to that, to that, oh, I mean, yeah, to that general philosophical opposition, I would
just point out that, you know, if I'm looking at a red, you know, a picture of a red square, and
you're looking at a picture of a red square, we're both seeing so many of the same things, and
we're built on architecture that is so close to identical, that it's almost like the burden of
proof is on them to demonstrate that it would, that we should expect it to be radically different.
Right. Well, I think that, I mean, that, that is a very, very deep subject. And I think like, I
agree that, given our genetic makeup and the similarity of our genes and brain architecture, that
yes, in a sense, the burden proof would be there. But there's also like pretty strong reasons to
believe that some of our kind of like core sensory qualia do differ from one person to another.
Let's take like the simple example of how cilantro is perceived by different people. And we find
that, yeah. Oh, so maybe you're, you're one of the unlucky ones. So yeah, I believe it's
a, but there's an argument that you know, she's having a different experience than I am when we
have cilantro. So it's, in that, in that sense, we can pinpoint the difference in our architecture
that that explains why he likes it. Or I guess we can point to the cause of that difference, because
we know what gene he has, or he doesn't have that I have or vice versa. Yes. We don't know, maybe
yet, how that's manifested exactly in the level of the brain. But it's, I don't know, I feel like
that's a different kind of example than two people looking at a red square.
Right. Well, here's another, I agree. So it's somewhat different. But here's the thing, like, you
could have different qualia relative to a stimuli. For one of several reasons. I mean, one of them is
that the receptor types are different. I mean, definitely people who are colorblind, because
they like, they lack a particular color receptor, like that's, that's pretty clear, like why their
experience is different. And, and for, for a lot of people who are colorblind, arguably, simply
giving their eyes, this additional photo receptor would allow them to actually experience the rest
of the colors, because they, they have the the appropriate hardware in the visual cortex to do
so. But then there are also people who are colorblind, because the neuronal channels between
the retina and the visual cortex are damaged, or they're different. But then there's also people
who are colorblind, because the areas in the visual cortex that that represent color are damaged,
or, or might be different. And what I would say is that there's one kind of a kind of like one
possibility, which is like the case where it's called the inverted spectrum thought experiment,
which is that, in a sense, like for you, what, what maps to red, actually in me maps to the green.
And for you, what maps to blue for me maps to yellow and vice versa. And the problem here is
that basically the color wheel is simply rotated 180 degrees. And, and, and that's a very, very
subtle difference and very hard to actually describe, because the relationship between every
color in terms of like the geometry of the space of possible colors remains the same. I mean,
basically this right, this rotation prevents you from from saying like, hey, like I, maybe your
green is different than mine, because I know that, you know, like yellow, yellowish green is more
similar to yellow than it is to green. And you can make arguments like that. But if the color
wheel is essentially just rotated 180 degrees, all of those relationships, we will stay the same.
Yeah, but you could never prove that in any way or test it in any way, right?
You can. Here is a couple of a couple of possibilities. I mean, like one of them
is we figure out what precise gene expression in the neurons in the visual cortex that I mean,
it's basically called the other color region in the individual cortex. What is the precise gene
expression in there that creates the particular protein structures with a secondary tertiary and
protein structure that leads to, let's say, phenomenal red. In that case, you would be able,
at least by basing on your first person experience, to say, hey, like I know that this particular
protein structure is necessary for my experience of red, and you don't have it. More so, if I
