But think of the social audacity of trying to be right all the time.
And I think, yeah, socially that is audacious, right?
But scientifically, it's more of a humility thing.
It's realizing that there's an error here,
and I have to go and look into it and correct it, if possible,
because I'm not perfect,
and I shouldn't just assume that my theory is perfect the way it is,
if I see something that might be a problem.
Yeah, I mean, if when you dropped things,
they fell at different rates one percent of the time,
our current theory of gravitation alone wouldn't suffice to explain it.
But if you're on air resistance or whatever,
then you can get something that makes a little more sense.
But yeah, I guess for me, this is kind of fun to read,
just because it brought back the easy days of arguing to people
that science was the right way to go and wasn't being, I don't know,
too aggressive or too high on its bridges,
like it really earns those high bridges by,
or that it really earns the seat on that high horse
by how hard it is on itself systematically.
But yeah, this isn't geared toward people
who already buy that science makes sense.
Right, I remember people saying that the four horsemen
were so such arrogant pricks because they wouldn't...
Well, okay, here's another quote.
When you argue a lot, people look upon you as confrontational.
If you repeatedly refuse to compromise, it's even worse.
Considered a question of tribal status.
Scientists have certainly earned some extra status
in exchange for such socially useful tools as medicine and cell phones.
But this social status does not justify their insistence
that only scientific ideas on evolution be taught in public schools.
Priests also have high status, after all.
Scientists are getting above themselves.
They won a little status,
and now they think they're chiefs of the whole tribe.
They ought to be more humble and compromise a little.
Which yeah, it's the wrong sort of humility.
And the line that really made this entire post for me,
which I, and oh, I see your note that you were about to copy it too,
is that he says the proper use of humility is humility that is useful.
The line is,
it may help to look at the actions recommended by a humble line of thinking and ask,
does acting this way make you stronger or weaker?
And like you said, when Mark Watley on Mars was humble about his,
maybe his math is wrong and double triple checking all his things,
it's because acting that way made him stronger.
It made even the smallest flaw get caught, so he wouldn't die.
This is one of the first real big insights in the sequences too,
which I guess we're only on post four.
But this is just one of my favorite little examples of,
you could sit and argue with your coworkers or your friends
about what the proper use of humility is and go back and forth,
but not content to just mentally masturbate,
and then barf that on a page and call it good.
And as he says, look, how about this,
what makes you, does acting this way make you stronger or weaker?
And I'm going to just go ahead and say, or rather, I think we can all agree,
that if it makes you weaker, that's not the proper way to do it.
If it is fine, call it its own thing,
well, without your own words, whatever, if you're hung up on that.
But the point is, is like, the goal of being a rationalist isn't to be weaker,
it's to be stronger in every way that you can be.
And so if, you know, the kid who's like,
well, no, studying only works for smart kids,
it's not going to work for me, you're made weaker by that thought.
Yeah, or if you're arguing something that might be important,
and then at the end of it, you just say, well, of course, I could be wrong.
And you don't actually change your position at all,
based on any of the arguments or evidence put on.
And it doesn't have any effect.
You're like that, that made you weaker.
You're just saying, well, I could be wrong.
And because you could be wrong, you don't take any of that into account.
That's, that's a shitty use of humility that it didn't improve you at all to,
to say that and to ignore everything that just happened.
Right. And he has that too, where, you know, you can meet every counter argument by saying,
well, I guess I could be wrong and not really take the work to analyze your belief.
And then having dutifully genuflected in the direction of modesty
and made the required obeisance, you can then go about your way without having changed a thing.
And then you stole my next quote, I was going to put down here too,
which was to be humble is to take specific actions in anticipation of your own errors
to confess your fallibility and then do nothing about it is not humble.
It is boasting of your modesty.
Yeah.
And, and exactly one of those things makes you stronger in the sense that,
you know, I, in, I guess the rationalist sense of more likely to be right or achieve your goals.
And one of them doesn't, right?
You know, this bullshit hand wavy thing to, you know, knuckle under somebody,
somebody's, somebody's challenging for being arrogant or something.
That's not going to, that's not useful to even your own goals, right?
So if you're doing that, it's a misstep in the dance.
It's, it's, even if you're making the step right, you're doing it,
even if you're putting your foot in the right places, you're doing it wrong, right?
Yeah.
You're getting there.
And likewise, just saying I could be wrong and not changing anything is also a big mistake.
Oh yeah, exactly.
That's, that's missing the point.
If you think you could actually be wrong, you'd make sure you know what that means.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That goes to the point of people being like, well, I guess all religions are true,
you know, because I could be wrong about this one and that doesn't help anything at all.
Actually consider that you might be wrong and how that should affect your actions
and your beliefs.
I'm liking Mark Wotley.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Yeah, go on.
I was going to say, I'm liking the Mark Wotley analogy more and more because it's nicely non-offensive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I could just imagine, you know, he's planning that, that, that mission or that,
that road trip to, I forget the name of the, the, the pros to go pick up.
Was it Curiosity?
I don't remember it was Curiosity.
I don't think so.
It was, it was something, but yeah, he takes that 20-day road trip out to go grab it.
I can imagine him saying, you know, well, fuck it.
I could be wrong and then nothing, right?
Like that, that's so out of character form that it's laughable.
And he kind of points his thing kind of northwest.
He's like, I could be wrong, but I'll just go in this direction.
But yeah, so what, what he would do is I could be wrong.
Let me, let me go back and look at a map and look at the stars and, you know,
draw a fucking line in the sand and, you know, whatever.
But the point is, is to, if you notice that you, if the thought occurs to you,
I might be wrong here.
You, you do something about it, whatever's appropriate.
And the appropriate thing is never to just ignore it.
Yeah.
Alrighty.
On to the modesty argument.
Yeah, that works for me.
All right.
Did you want to start with this with time or should I again?
Um, yeah, I guess the only thing that I'll point in is to keep in mind here at this one,
that this kind of strikes me as, as a good tie into the, I remember that when we were going
through the culture war 2.0, like the six proposals proposed, not solutions, but, you know,
positive paths forward, you and I kind of tore them to shreds.
Because I think we were, we were thinking about it in the wrong way.
We were talking, we were thinking about a, I think the point of those was to have them be
more personal commitments, not like public ones.
If somebody wasn't going to play ball, then there's not playing ball, whatever.
But the other thing was that we kept imagining, arguing with bad faith
arguers and people who would do, you know, who would make claims like the modesty argument
of the same kind of icky flavor that the modest argument is.
Where they'll, they'll, they'll challenge what you're saying and kind of demand
that you change your opinion, but not really give you a good reason.
That's sort of, the modesty argument's more in depth than that.
It's more, you know, you change your opinion, not because they don't give you a good reason,
but because their belief is a reason.
But to me, that's not a good enough reason, and neither it is to other users.
So I just, I wanted to bring it kind of back and tie it into, I think that this is
a good example of a generalized case of that kind of icky argument that we were imagining
encountering when taking those six positive steps to combat the culture wars.
So that's, that was my, my one tie into something else.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
What I got, I guess we should quickly summarize that the modesty argument is basically it states
that when two or more human beings have common knowledge that they disagree about a question
of simple fact, they should each adjust their probability estimates in the direction of the
others. This, when I was reading this, it seemed like this was kind of a continuation of an argument
that may have been already going on, because he mentions Ommons, is it pronounced Ommons?
Ommons, I think.
Say Ommon Ommon.
Okay. Ommons agreement theorem, which is a Bayesian thing where if two fully rational
Bayesian agents meet each other and they have different, they have different probabilities
assigned to a certain belief, or they, once they exchange all the information that they have
and their priors, then their likely probability hoods should match after that that
mathematically obligated to have the same probability as been after.
Yes, that they literally cannot agree to disagree, which I guess may work in in certain types of
machine learning, especially if you can be completely transparent and honest about all
your beliefs and where they originated. I don't think it really applies to humans that much.
And I'm not sure that this post really is all that relevant anymore, because
like, I don't know of anyone that accepts the modesty argument, not personally anyway, like no
one I know of thinks that like, yeah, every time I meet someone on the opposite end of the political
spectrum, I should adjust my beliefs slightly towards their point of view, and they should
adjust their beliefs towards my point of view, you know, it just, that doesn't work that way.
I think there's something naively Bayesian sounding about somebody comes up to you,
especially somebody that you might trust, whatever, and says, hey, I just saw werewolves.
That that makes that that it sounds intuitive that that ought to increase your probability
estimate that werewolves exist. And that's sort of the modesty argument, right?
Yeah. I don't know if that's, I mean, I don't, I don't know if you find that unimaginable or
anything. I don't know if I, if I know anybody who would articulate anything that way either.
But I think that that's the intuitive kind of thing that this is getting at that is,
and this is apparently an actual disagreement that people have had in the past, but B,
it does, it sounds somewhat intuitive to me that that could be a way to think about a disagreement.
And, you know, I guess I've actually heard cases that, you know, look,
well, rather I've heard confusions on how to handle those Asians, like, look, too many,
there are way more Christians than there are you. If you're not a Christian,
every one of them should count as evidence of the, of the, the truth of Christianity because
so many people believe it. You know, like, if you're the only person driving on the wrong side
of the road, you're probably driving, you're probably the wrong one, right? I think that's
sort of thing. But honestly, this post sort of struck me as the opposite of the property
use humility in that I didn't, I found it kind of long-winded and not applicable to me. Whereas
the property use humility was, was pretty brief and awesome. So we can get into, into it as much
as you want, but, you know, everyone, you know, can give it a shot. It's not bad. It's just, uh,
wasn't quite as useful. Yeah, at least not to me. It does quote the 12 virtues of rationality,
which we should probably cover at some point. Oh, does it? Oh, it, it, it quotes them a couple
