inject it directly into your brain, or in a sense, like I make your neurons express it,
all of a sudden, you gain these new qualia, and you're able to talk about it and it's novel for
you. I think like a scenario like that would be one with, which would provide extraordinary
evidence to show that a person wasn't able to experience red before. I mean, that's one case
which has to do with basically finding the biochemical underpinnings of different qualia
varieties. There's also the case of mind melding, which is much more even further into kind of the
territory of science fiction. But I mean, just as we know, there's like some twins, the Hogan
sisters, that basically they share a thalamic bridge. They're conjoined twins and the thalamus
in their brains basically is bridged together such that they essentially share kind of like an
extended thalamus across two different brains, and they're able to experience each other's
qualia. I mean, they're still too young for us to really understand what their experience feels
like, but it seems like a thalamic bridge that basically unifies your experience and my experience
so that we are, in a sense, one entity with two brains. Then we would be able to actually compare,
like, hey, like, how is the the neurons in your brain that represent color? How do they map
to the neurons in my brain that represent color? And are we experiencing, you know, like a
inverted spectrum scenario or not? And I think, yeah, I honestly suspect that
if we do come to the point where we can do reversible thalamic bridges, mind melding,
that we will have a bunch of surprises that actually our experiences are probably more
different than that we suspect. I'm having a hard time imagining that though, because
we both see the same wavelength of light on a like on a flower. And even if they're like experience
of that color is different, the it would be, you know, stimulating the same neurons in my brain
that are stimulated by that color, right? By by that wavelength. Right. Well, okay. So like,
here's how how it would actually play out. So imagine that our brains are connected via
a thalamic bridge. And also kind of like, take too hard to the idea that what these does is
is not in the sense that it just provides kind of like a, you know, telepathy communication
channel between us. It's, it's a much stronger change. It would be something like, all of a
sudden, there is like one entity that has two visual fields, two sensory, two sensory fields
related to the body, and all faction and so on. But it's still the same unified consciousness is
like one one entity with two visual fields. So how you could do this is basically,
in a sense, you have my face looking at the flower and you have your face looking at the flower.
The way wavelengths of light are affecting four different eyes, in a sense, but those eyes are
connected to two different visual cortex. And then you would be able to basically look at these two
visual fields at once, and see how does the flower look in one of them, and how does the flower look
in the other one? And do they look the same? So that's, that's how it would happen. I mean,
it would be crazy because it would be, it wouldn't really be me or you, but it would be this unified
entity with both of our brains. They couldn't be all that different, though, because we both
interact with the same world, and we can, you know, talk about things and manipulate objects
and understand each other. So I mean, there's, there's an outside world that binds us all together.
That's right. But it could be, I mean, it could be a, one of those differences, like the inverted
spectrum scenario, where the blue for you is, is a yellow for me. So the flower looks blue in
one visual field and looks yellow in a different, in the other visual field. Does that make sense?
Sort of. Do you, do you remember that like blue or gold dress thing that went around a few years
ago? Yes, I believe that's, I mean, that's, that's related. That's related. But, but yes, I know the
phenomenon that has more to do with things such as like the, the, how the, the actual retina
processes the, the information. And, and presumably to some extent, how your, your brain decides
how it's inferring the environment. I believe that like, if, if the light, if your brain inferred
that the picture was taking a high light condition, then it, it saw it in a particular color.
If it inferred that it was in a low light condition, it saw it in a different color.
So I think like what was different from one person to another in that visual illusion had to do with
how the brain is making inferences about the context of that light, of that dress, where the dress
picture was taken. But I mean, it is related and like, but the thing is like, you could,
you could still have like an inverted spectrum scenario and that, and that illusion wouldn't
really give you much of an insight into it. There is a, I mean, like one, another kind of like
important fact about the world that kind of like ups my, my, my suspicion that our experiences are
like much more different than we believe is, is the fact that synesthesia exists. I mean, you,
you do have a whole bunch of people who represent auditory stimuli with a phenomenal color and,
and they can have complex visual experiences based on sound. I mean, usually it's kind of like,
they actually do experience sound qualia, like they, they do experience how sound feels like to
others. And then that's appended with additional, in a sense, like decoration is kind of like a
decorated, decorated sound experience. But, but you could imagine synesthesia that is basically
just a based on replacement that rather than having auditory experiences that then get
embellished with visual experience, that maybe they just experience the visual, visual experience
with no auditory experience. And that's how they represent sound. And I mean, like the,
the main question that comes from this is like, why are we not all synesthetic? And, and our take
on that is that in a sense, we all are, we are just a functional type of synesthetic. It's kind
of like the mapping between sensory input to different qualia varieties that most people have
happens to be a mapping that is really effective for information processing.
So, like the reason why colors are used to represent wavelengths of light is not that
it has to be that way. But it's more that the organisms that do that basically are better at
representing informational features of the visual landscape. So basically using that kind of
representation is selected for. But, but yeah, I mean, I suspect you could probably rerun the
evolutionary game from, from the start. And it could very well be that by, by the time you have
intelligent creatures like us, whenever they open their eyes, they have complex auditory
experiences to represent the visual landscape. And they have like absolutely no visual qualia
that I think that's a, that would be a possibility. And that might, might be the case as well in
other species. I really enjoyed the exploration there. That made me think of a, I guess I have a
lot of thoughts, I'll try and be brief, or I'll just top a couple of them off. And I'll point out
that the auditory experience of visual phenomena was explored in the Deadpool comics and cartoon
series. They're not Deadpool. Gee, everyone does that, including me. Daredevil. So Daredevil can't
see. He doesn't get auditory, or excuse me, visual stimuli, but he gets auditory experience
that's enough for him to kind of build a visual picture, kind of like an echolocation. And I like,
that kind of struck a chord when you, or a good chord that resonated with me when you said that
we are all kind of synesthesia patients, but we're having, you know, paraphrasing, we're having
auditory experiences of auditory phenomena. Whereas with some of the synesthesia is getting
wires crossed, but you know, it doesn't, I don't know, for some reason that, that hit me on a,
on a fun note, I liked that. Yeah, that was, that was a good explanation. Yeah. But I, and I didn't
mean to get us too far field, it sounds like they aren't losing a lot of sleep at the quality
research institute over like the fundamental question that, you know, would come up in a
philosophy 101 class. But I just, I anticipated that coming up at some point in the comments,
so I wanted to make sure that we had at least addressed the point.
I mean, kind of like as a rule of thumb, we tend to take all of these, yeah, I mean, philosophy
one of one, especially philosophy of mind one on one, and where most people would be skeptical
that you can do anything with it. We, we actually think it's mostly an engineering problem to get
anywhere for these questions. Good, I think the way that scientifically thinking people should be,
should be oriented, so. So how do you do this research? Yes, so there's a, there's a few components
to this. I mean, as I mentioned, the, there's definitely just like the foundational aspect of
it. So that involves like pure philosophy of mind. I mean, that's the sort of research that
you would do at a philosophy department that, you know, you don't, you don't need a lab for that.
And in that sense, like we, we do spend a lot of that in foundational, a lot of time in foundational
philosophy of mind. Specifically, we explore a lot what we call what we call qualia formalism.
And this is the idea that consciousness will turn out to be similar to electromagnetism
in the sense that, you know, before there used to be electricity and there used to be
lightning and then magnets and compass and all of these disparate phenomena. And nobody had
any suspicion that actually they were all intimately connected into a unified, unified,
unified set of equations. But then eventually, yeah, somebody Maxwell figured out that
all of these disparate phenomena really are explained as, as different regions of a state
space procured by a set of relatively simple equations interacting together. And the same
we think is going to happen with consciousness. And I mean, in that sense, we are kind of like
very close to other, other research labs and philosophy, philosophers like Giulio Tononi,
who really take consciousness seriously, but, but more so, they also try to attack the problems of
consciousness with a mathematical foundation, where they actually tried to figure out what are
the equations that underlie consciousness. But so, I mean, and all of that obviously involves,
you know, reading a lot of articles and books and synthesizing them and
seeing, seeing how they can be squared with a qualia formalism as a philosophy. But then
there's also the experimental side. So specifically, sorry, go ahead.
Real quick, before we get into the experimental side, because I definitely want to hear about
that too. But what, what do these equations describe? Do you have any, any ideas yet? Like,
do they describe neurotransmitters or functioning or what? What is the right mathematics pointing
at? That's right. Yes. So something like IIT integrated information theory developed by
Giulio Giulio Tononi, like they what those equations ultimately map to is basically ways
of quantifying the ways in which a systems behavior can or cannot be modularized. By that,
I mean that whether the next state of a given system requires you to take into account
the entire system, or whether you can basically break down the system into subcomponents and then
estimate what the next state of each of those components is going to be and then
just aggregate the results. So they have a, the math for what they call integrated information.
And then they have a metaphysical claim, which is that they associate integrated
information with consciousness. I mean, if you look at those equations, equations, they're like
methods for basically taking logical propositions and then transforming them into a number that
tells you basically how interconnected or how integrated the logic is. And then you also need
like a way of transforming an actual physical system into logical propositions in order to do
this analysis. In our case, we don't specifically associate integrated information with consciousness,
but we do admire their work because basically there are people who actually are taking the
formalism of consciousness very seriously and seeing where that leads to. And in that sense,
we resonate very strongly. But in our case, what we're trying to do is transforming a brain states
into a data structure in which then you can apply equations to infer how happy or unhappy
that particular brain is. And the thing that it refers to is not actually individual brain,
sorry, individual neuron activity. It's a higher level phenomena that is called brain
connect them harmonics, which was basically championed by Selen Atasoy in 2016 in a Nature
article, where they figured out a way of taking fMRI and diffusion tensor imaging of brains
and transformed that into basically a vector that tells you the amplitude of each of the brain
harmonics. I don't know, I mean, I could get more into kind of like the details here. I can also
just like send the link to those articles. But yeah, I mean, I guess to kind of like tie it in
with your question, it's what this refers to is the amplitude of different brain harmonics,
which is basically the main electromagnetic resonant modes of our brain. So it does come down
to a physical property in this in this case, that is pretty measurable. And it's currently
been explored clinically. Okay, interesting. Are there any, are there any easily just adjustable
experimental results or predictions that are made by this kind of specific harmonic wave
paradigm? Yes, yes, we do make the prediction that I mean, broadly speaking, you will find
things such as that if you take MDMA, the brain harmonics that you will experience will be mutually
consonant. And I mean, here's where it gets, it really starts to sound a little bit kind of like
new agey. And I guess I'm not super apologetic, because I mean, even though new age paradigms
are definitely not very scientific, to the extent that they follow the intuition about how things
feel, that it can be pretty, pretty insightful or accurate. But like, you know, like this hippie
notion of you just need to find inner harmony, or you need to harmonize yourself. And like how,
like, when you have like harmonic sounds in music, that tends to be, that tends to sound good, or at
least it tends to produce emotions, as opposed to random sounds or, or white noise, which is
less emotional in general. So likewise, we suspect that your brain normally, you could think of it
as kind of an orchestra that has all sorts of different instruments. And sometimes the instruments
are playing well together. And sometimes they're not. Where each of these instruments would be
basically a brain harmonic, and a brain connected harmonic. And if you take MDMA, it would be something
like, basically telling half of the orchestra to shut up. And then the remaining part of the
orchestra to play a very simple tune that is extremely harmonic. And that that's basically
what the what MDMA is doing, but in the space of brain harmonics. And the prediction then is that
MDMA does this to human brains, in general? Yes. Yes. And whether MDMA feels euphoric,
will, will be, will be possible to be inferred by applying this, yeah, basically this consonance
equation to the set of brain harmonics. And so like, because you could take MDMA and, and, you
know, have a, not have a response, there's non responders, for example. So, of course, in,
if you're an MDMA non responder, they, they might, you know, take a blood sample and, and, and see
like higher concentrations of things like serotonin, but like that might still not really
correlate with your actual mood. So like we think like whether the MDMA is actually causing this,
this rise in mood, will be much better predicted by something like whether your brain harmonics
are consonant with each other than serotonin concentrations. And so you could, you could
measure if someone's having a good or bad trip. Yes. Yes. And there are observing harmonics,
something that you can do. Do you have instruments do that? Or are these theorized things that you
can do or in principle? It's something that has been done. And there's a few labs that, that have
done it. And we, if we, if we get enough funding, we would love to actually fund a study to do it
in one of these labs. Or what's actually most likely is to append our study with an ongoing
study that also uses MDMA. The reason why, why we, we care so much about MDMA in this particular
context is that it basically will produce the largest effect sizes. So if the theory has anything
going for it, we expect to see it on MDMA, whereas we, we don't necessarily expect to see it with
other chemicals or, or other, you know, mental phenomena, like, you know, hypnotism and things
like that. Freshly baked bread won't induce a reliable, obvious jump in activity, the same way
as a, as an MDMA hit will. That's right. That's really interesting. I think that brings us right
back to the actual experimentation. Yes. Yes. Aspect of the question. So yeah, I mean, like,
right now, we are basically doing a lot of low hanging fruit research. A lot of it involves
mechanical Turk. And it involves presenting stimuli, basically, I mean, mostly audio and visual.
Although there's also some semantic as well. But with the purpose of basically generalizing
the theory, music theory that transforms particular discrete harmonic sounds, I mean,
like when you play several instruments at once, for example, there are well known equations for
how to transform though the amplitude of nodes from different instruments into
a number that tells you how, how dissonant that sounds feels like. But what doesn't exist currently
into literature is a way to transform arbitrary sounds into something that tells you basically
how pleasant or unpleasant those sounds are. And that's something that we are we're investigating.
The reason why, I mean, this is low hanging fruit, and it's in a sense, it's not the ideal
research subject, but it's pretty close when it comes to things that are cheap to experiment on.
Obviously, no legal problem in presenting auditory stimuli to people and ask them how they feel
about it. But the reason why we think this is actually useful for our core mission is that
the number of pre processing steps that exist between auditory stimuli and actual brain states
is relatively low. Whereas with things like vision, there are just like so many pre processing
steps between, you know, how your retina is being activated, and then how your visual cortex is
