Yeah.
So I mean, the universe makes much more sense if the Earth is the center of the universe and
probably the largest thing in it.
You know, it's kind of kind of nonsensical that God would care about this little speck
or make the speck for some reason.
Have you seen that like stretched out like panel by panel of the, you know, like here's
the Earth and then here's the solar system.
Here's the planet.
Here's the galaxy.
Here's the cluster.
10 times a zoom every time, right?
Well, this one's just captioned pictures.
Oh, okay.
And then it goes all the way out.
Yeah.
To the observable universe.
And the last picture is Jesus standing over it saying, don't masturbate.
Nice.
Okay.
All right.
So now six.
Yeah.
Suppose I involuntary admit involuntarily administer to you a potion that would
cause you to believe that human deaths were good.
Afterward, would you truly believe that human deaths were good?
Or would you believe falsely that human deaths were good?
I don't know.
I don't know what it means to believe something falsely.
Well, like to have a wrong belief is it, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think your car is blue, even though it's actually green.
Right.
So if I gave you a potion, let me take my car as blue.
Would you believe, you would truly believe that, but you'd be wrong.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's define you though.
If I took a snapshot of Enias's brain state right before you received that potion,
that would be Enias, right?
And the other would be something had altered Enias against his preferences.
Yeah.
But I, even though I would believe that deaths are good, I would be wrong about that.
So I would believe it falsely.
Yeah.
And then I guess depends on the definition of Enias there.
I would define you as the snapshot that I took before you received that potion.
Aw.
You probably would, too.
You would consider this like sub-Enias, Enias beta.
You'd be Poisoned Enias, or Poisoned Enias, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, Enias from the darkest timeline.
Now the thing that's like awkward about that is that you can take a snapshot of us from any
point in our lives and we're going to have change through external forces.
Oh yeah.
So yeah, that's a bit of a stretch definition of you, I guess.
But I still think I endorse that definition of you, the unaltered one, although I don't know.
So you got bit by some kind of parasite that also changed your personality.
If I got bit by that parasite that makes me unable to eat and eat physically.
Yeah.
Or just makes it repugnant to you or something.
I mean, that also changed you.
I meant more like one that changes your personality, not your dietary habits a little.
That could change your personality.
But that happens all the time, right?
Like I identify very little with myself of 15 years ago.
So like since that kid was an asshole, I don't really like worry a lot about the things that he did.
It's weird how much I've changed since 15 years ago.
Yeah, frankly, I think it's good.
And I realized when I was like 21 or 20, right around when I was coming on like full sentience
as like a human.
And like I thought that like I'd like woken up a few times before that.
And at this point I was like, oh no, this is just going to keep happening.
And so like in a few years, I'm going to feel the same way like about my younger self.
Me realizing this now is I feel about myself five years ago.
And I was also correct then assuming that I would feel actually like that same like a similar
distance but less like I guess emotional disconnect from that person because at least
that person was like awake enough to like see that future person existed.
So do you think intergenerational conflict is inevitable?
I think that's a complete curveball.
Well, because people change as they get older, will there always be conflict between older
people and younger people?
Oh, I thought you meant would like be like through generations would a conflict go on?
Like I was thinking from like, you know, younger self to older self.
And then you were like, well, what about generations?
Like that's different people.
I see what you're saying.
I think the way we are now, yes.
Transhumanist future us would still, you know, have to go from baby to adolescent to 21.
But after that point, I feel like if we and then even maybe we don't necessarily have to
grow that way, I think there probably is some process where you have to
build on experiences and actually grow neurons.
But I don't know.
But once you reach like full adulthood, then you could just kind of download all the information
in the universe, maybe like train yourself like the matrix on all like past experiences
of human life.
I feel like there's going to be like maybe something that's going to because like a lot
of intergenerational conflict is say elderly people aren't tech savvy anymore.
And they're going to be overtaken by younger tech savvy people.
But that's not like if their brains were still operating on the high levels of openness and
flexibility and whatnot that they had in their youth.
And they had the drive to learn technology.
They could do it.
But if everyone all downloaded every experience that happened, we'd all be the same person.
Well, that gives you a different backstory.
Maybe you weren't allowed to upload to your 100.
But I think you could make it even less like everyone over 100 would be the same person.
Well, but you'd have the different prior hundred years, right?
So like, no, you wouldn't because now everybody else in the world also has your prior hundred years.
Oh, yeah.
Well, so that yeah, we can make it even easier than that, right?
What if we just lived to be 50,000 years old, right?
And everything else stayed the same for sake of the argument, right?
And like there's if you knew somebody who was, you know, in junior high dating somebody who was
in college, like that was gross.
Like that was like a seven year difference or something.
Yeah.
And there's a lot of psychological distance between like a 14 year old and a 20 year old.
Yeah.
Even though it's six years.
And yet an 11,000 year old person dating a 10,000 year old person,
like a thousand years is a lot more years.
But I imagine there's a lot less psychological distance between those between those two people.
I don't know, man.
You don't know what happens in a thousand years.
We haven't run it.
Like maybe 40,000 year old me would be like, God, I hate 30K me.
I have to undo all my old stupid policies.
Well, I guess I could go back in time and assassinate someone.
I would assassinate me.
I can relate that like with with rolled examples of like, I knew a friend whose parents met.
Well, I made the joke that they met in high school, but they didn't because one was 15
years old and the other.
And so, right.
So, you know, if you're 55 and you're married to a 40 year old
and you met when you were, you know, say two years younger than that or something,
that's not that's not nearly as like frowned upon by society or like, frankly,
bizarre and uncomfortable as like a 20 year old dating or a 20 year old dating a 13 year old.
Right, right.
But it's still, it's still significant.
But like you're both a significant, but I feel like it's less significant.
Like you're both adults.
Yeah, you're pre-matures after a certain age.
Yeah.
And then it kind of stops developing.
I mean, it doesn't.
Six years younger than me and six years older than me.
And it actually, I think seven, eight years older than me.
It actually makes enough of a difference in life experience that you notice.
You're like, this is, this is kind of.
You notice, but it's not insurmountable to like, at least have a relationship
or have a try at one.
Yeah.
Like it may make you, you could even just be friends.
Like if I was 20 and I had 13 year olds who are like my friends that I called and
chatted with, that'd be super.
Like what do I have in common with a 13 year old at 20?
I may be both are into rationality, man.
I mean, I think.
I talked with a lot of 20 year olds when I was 13, not about like atheism and computer
tech and all sorts of crazy shit.
All right.
You bought it over your interest and I guess I try to, like if I went over the house and
hung out, I don't know.
It just seems like there's something weird about that and not to me.
Like we're 10 years apart, nine, nine or 10.
Yeah.
Like, and this doesn't seem weird.
Like, but if this was true, if this was 20 years ago and you were 19 and I was nine.
Maybe it's more about like upbringing.
Cause like we, I think we have had enough similar experiences that were cool.
Whereas I've dated people who are like into music that I was like, those are the oldies,
man.
And like we watched totally different cartoons.
I was talking with someone who, uh, I forget which cartoon it was, but I was like the old
man watching the old cartoons.
And I was like, this is weird.
You were like seven when Batman the animated series was on.
Like to Jess's point though, like once you've reached that maturity though,
at least there's like a level that you're all, you're all on this.
You're at least playing the same game.
Right. Cause you know, all the, you know, at least know most of the rules.
Yeah.
Like you can color inside the lines most of the time.
Whereas, you know, I don't know.
I feel like this got just really far from the post.
I can't remember what the question was.
So, um, what was the question about?
The potions?
Falsely believing things.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Would you believe it falsely or truly?
In my opinion, falsely, but.
Yeah.
I, I agree.
I think.
