No.
If all ARB and all BRC, all ARC, I can't falsify that unless my axioms are wrong.
And since they're not, then I can't.
I once read a really cool, very short story about a secret number,
that there's a secret number between 2 and 3 that has been hiding,
and it doesn't want, you know, anyone to know about it.
So for the most part, whenever 2 and 2 are added together,
you always get 4 because that thing is fucking with the universe, right?
But it's basically the story about a detective showing up and finds this,
this mathematician whose dad apparently looks like suicide.
There's a suicide note and everything.
Some things don't check out, but he's reading this weird manifesto
about the secret number between 2 and 3.
He's like, okay, dude's obviously a kook, whatever, man.
This is like one of those 50s gum shoes, right?
Kooks do kooky things, like kill themselves.
But at the end, there's three raisins on the table,
and he like picks up a raisin, puts it in his mouth.
That's a tasty raisin.
Looks down.
There's three raisins on the table.
That was the coolest thing.
Were the other numbers sent in in this short story or was it just a secret one?
It was just the secret number.
Sounds nuts.
There was a secret number of raisins on the table, and he just thought there were three.
Is that standing?
If you remember the name of the story, you can find it.
I'd be interested in reading it.
Okay.
So I think the last one I want to touch on this one is,
where is the content of 3 plus 2 equals 4?
I mean, it's in the axioms of math that we have created.
Right, and that seems to be a third place, for lack of a better word,
for things to be true or false.
But we created them because they accurately model reality,
as far as we can tell.
But 2 plus 2 is 4 isn't even subjectively true.
Right.
It's logically true.
Yeah, it's definitely true.
Right.
So you have this many things we call that 4.
Yeah.
And there's words for all these in philosophy, I forget,
but there's objective and subjective, and then there's this third thing,
which is just something else that there's a word for.
The content of this is stored external to all of us.
If the universe went out like a light, and well, if everyone died,
2 plus 2 would still equal 4.
Well, there'd still be that amount of objects.
They wouldn't have a name anymore.
But the logic would still be sound.
Whereas if all humans are dead, and there was no way to make the judgment anymore,
human death is bad, wouldn't be true anymore.
This sounds like the if a tree fell in a forest,
and no one was trying to hear an argument.
Yeah, I think we're, I'd rather not argue about the definitions.
Right, definition of sound.
I just think it's fun that it seems like there's at least three different places
where these kinds of facts are stored.
One is the stuff I can throw on your face, like your tea is hot, splash.
One is bad to splash you.
And two is, or three, for those of you keeping count at home.
The secret number between two and three is 2 plus 2 is 4.
So, all right.
Number nine?
Yes.
The phrase is-ought-gap refers to the notion that no-ought-statement can be logically derived
from any number of statement of is-statements without at least one-ought-statement in the mix.
For example, suppose I have a remote control with two buttons,
and the red button kills an innocent person,
and the green button sets them free.
I cannot derive the ought-statement, I ought not to press the red button,
without both the is-statement, if I press the red button an innocent will die,
and the ought-statement, I ought not to kill innocence.
Should we distinguish mixed ought-statements, like I ought not to press the red button,
from pure ought-statements, like I ought not to kill innocence?
If so, is there really any such thing as a pure ought-statement,
or do they all have is-statements mixed into them somewhere?
And this is where I think the stealth assassination came in,
because, you know, from all this talking, we obviously believe that I ought not to kill innocence
isn't a final ought-statement, it's just a statement that death is bad,
and killing an innocent creates death, or ends their life, right?
I mean, those are two is-statements, and you don't need an ought to force things.
Because the ought's implied, or I guess-
The ought's not even implied, killing someone is bad.
Right. But, yeah, you know, I know that there's a lot more to this, and it's weird,
I guess, maybe that maybe I'm finally getting old enough to forget,
I used to know more about this sort of thing.
I, maybe it's just been so many years since I read anything by David Hume,
and he was the guy that had the whole is ought thing that made it at least popular.
And now I can't really remember what he was like, his stuff.
What's on about?
But what's weird is I know that I used to know this, this is actually rather disconcerting.
I think I probably know more new things now than old me.
It's all right. It's okay, Stephen. Yeah, that's weird.
So, yeah, I'm mourning the loss of my memory, you go ahead and answer me.
Yeah, I think all of these kind of make you look at, here's a fact about the universe independent
of my perception, and here is what my perception of these things tells me.
And this is the same thing.
I ought not to kill people is my perception, and if I press the red button,
then someone will die, isn't his statement.
And you can get, you cannot get any ash help.
Well, I just disagree that there's a meaningful distinction that
when someone says you can't get an ought from an is, I say, no, you're wrong, you totally can,
because death is bad. Therefore, you shouldn't kill people.
I didn't hear an ought in there anywhere, because therefore is an ought.
Therefore, you ought not kill people.
Oh, I was just, yeah.
I was saying you dodged the argument by not using odd, but is there and therefore.
I'm spent on that one.
Yeah, well, I think.
I think we need someone who disagrees with us on this and has thought it through to
challenge us on this.
All right, moving on, number 10, which has nothing to do with morality.
The statement, this painting is beautiful, could be rendered untrue by flinging a bucket
of mud on the painting. Similarly, in their will control example above,
the statement, it is wrong to press the red button can be rendered untrue by rewiring the
remote. Are there pure aesthetic judgments? Are there pure preferences?
I have no idea what he's getting on about here.
Yes, it's wrong to press a red button because of what it will do, not because it's a red
button and you should press red button. Right.
And so, I guess, are there pure aesthetic judgments or are there pure preferences?
I'm not really sure I'd answer that question.
Well, the painting being beautiful is an aesthetic judgment,
and someone might think that the painting covered in mud is more beautiful.
Yes, I'm not sure what a pure preference or pure aesthetic judgment are.
Well, are you making a judgment based purely on aesthetics?
I'm literally asking, I have no idea.
I also have no idea what question 10 is all about.
Yeah, I'm not sure what a pure judgment is supposed to be.
To me, art is fun to look at or it's not, and it's universally overpriced.
I guess I have no idea what kind of judgment that means or what it means for that to be pure
or impure. I don't think that he's using pure in the sense of it being good or innocent.
I think what he means is are there judgments that are completely
aesthetic versus are there preferences?
Like, there's no objective part to it if the aesthetic is entirely subjective.
Oh, sure, then in that case, definitely. I mean, I've complained over and over about
like some of the artists out there at the Museum of Modern Art in New York,
and I thought it was just pointless and disgusting and hate to have it in my house.
And yet, like, it's there being revered by all these hipsters.
And so that's definitely, like, I think a purely subjective thing.
Or everyone there is just like, you know, posturing to each other about how they
get it because they're woke enough or something.
But there's no doubt somebody who thinks it's really cool.
And I think there's ways in which aesthetic preferences can be more complex or less complex.
I know there's a lot of songs that are dead simple but are loved anyway because of that.
And there's nothing wrong with that, but that's that's different from like saying,
this is an objective measure of whether something is aesthetically good or not.
Right. It's like, yes, it's simpler or it's more complex, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's
better. It just occurred to me that Eleizer is a computer scientist.
So he's probably he might be using the word pure in the form of like a pure function,
like in mathematics or in programming, it's like a return to the same output given the
same input no matter what. I don't think that's the case right here.
Because it could be like, so there's a purely aesthetic judgment would make,
you know, give you the same give the same aesthetic judgment based off your perception of it
based per every input and never change or something, right?
I think that's the same as saying a wholly aesthetic judgment.
Could be. I clearly need to learn more English.
Well, no, I mean, I just think that's possible, but it's a esoteric enough use of the term that
I think he would have defined it beforehand if that's what he was doing. He would have said
meaning in this way.
I don't think so. He's not big on defining the terms that he uses.
If he's not using them in a standard way, he usually makes a note of it at some point before
doing it that way.
So there's like pure in those and I didn't even think of the way that
Jess brought it up in that like innocent or, you know, that that sort of thing.
And I was thinking pure like this crystal is pure caffeine. It's not diluted with other things,
right? And so those are the two I was thinking of. And then there's the other kind of pure as
like in terms of functions. But since he didn't say pure function, he probably didn't mean math.
All right. That's that's all I got for that one.
So we took a brief, brief recess to refresh on what what lyrically wrote in for us.
And it's great. It's actually really engaging. And it's a drag because it's it's fairly lengthy
and it's really well distilled in that there's like not parts I can chop out.
I can grab about quotes, but that's not the point.
Honestly, they've agreed to come back and be on the show at some point when they have free time.
So I want to talk about a couple other things with them, but we'll just, well,
we'll revisit this when they come back. How's that sound, guys?
Sounds good. Yeah, I think that's a good idea.
All right. I will throw in one thing really quick that we touched on, but we didn't articulate.
So Lyric raised the point of AIs could be programmed to throw their values you want.
And they could have like moral truths to them, right? But I'm being less eloquent.
That's why there's no point in paraphrasing this. All right. Yeah, Lyric, we'll have you on to talk
about this IRL only because we were at this for a while and I think we're all philosophyed out.
So we are going to skip the three less wrong posts that we mentioned last time because this
entire episode was a last wrong post reading anyway. And just get straight into listener feedback.
There is one last thing on this subject regarding less wrong posts that there are other posts
weighed on the line that answer some of these in more depth. Yes. So this isn't like the last place
that this sort of thing is ever explicitly addressed in the sequences. It's just the first place.
Yeah. So, all right. Okay. At heart engineer says, just so you know where you've fallen my
priority risk list, you're ahead of radio lab. And they touched a screenshot of all the total
hours played of various podcasts. And yeah, we were ahead of radio lab. We were ahead, I think,
of 99% invisible as well. Yep. Like I was floored. That's awesome. And past making sense of the
Sam Harris, which is saying something because he puts out a lot more hours of content than we do.
Yeah. I wasn't at all hurt that Joe Rogan had three times the time on here than we did because he
puts out like 12 hours a week. Right. Yeah. That's crazy. That was that was really awesome. I felt
just super cool. Yeah, thanks for that at heart engineer. Yay. Yeah, that's awesome. I don't have,
I guess, much else to jump on here. But we never are out of time to do what?
Thank our awesome patron. Thank the patron. That's right. And this episode's patron is
