So it goes from like men, which is like white land-owning slave owners,
to, you know, the rest of white men, to the rest of white men,
including some of these immigrants, then women, et cetera.
And it's getting expanded.
And then...
And there's ways in which it's shrunk too.
Well, to finish my thing really, to get where I'm going is...
So you quit saying man, you start saying person.
And then you can kind of say sentient being.
And then you realize like, okay, well, if I'm not just caring about my fellow men,
I'm caring about my fellow humans and my fellow, I guess, you know, people, you know,
maybe chimps and elephants and, you know, sentient beings.
Okay, well, that broadens it to basically everything that's alive, right?
So in that sense, that seems to the direction that it happened, at least historically, right?
Whether or not that's the way that it felt like going from then to now is different.
But what was your thought?
Oh, well, I mean, I think there's some entities that we don't consider important
anymore that we used to.
Like what? Like real entities?
Well, I was guessing that you're going to say like gods or something, right?
Yeah. And they, I mean, gods is obviously a big one.
People who are not alive anymore, I think is a pretty big one too.
That used to be a much greater concern of people in the past that they,
if something were to dishonor the memory of one of their ancestors or their loved ones,
that was like really important to them.
Whereas nowadays we're like, well, they're dead.
That's interesting. I think you're right.
So like the scope of harm, maybe was more refined there.
Like on the one hand, I don't burn a lot of concern over like the leprechauns I step on
going to and from my car, right?
So if my ancestors thought there were leprechauns that they were stepping on,
then, you know, they were worried about it.
That's their own problem.
So, but the other part about ancestors, yeah.
So I'm torn on that.
Like on the one hand, you know, we talked about years ago with Katrina,
like about harming dead people and I could go to your grave and like,
pull out your skeleton and set it on fire.
Like I'm not harming you. You're dead.
In that sense, it's pointless.
But in the sense of like, I wish I'd said this at the time.
I might have mentioned this in the air before, but like if Katrina died and like,
so if I desecrate her corpse, I'm not harming her.
But if I put a bunch of child porn on her computer and a bunch of human meat in her fridge,
I've harmed her reputation, right?
And somebody might take offense at that, right?
To put it mildly.
And I think they'd be kind of right to do so.
I'm ruining all that's left of this person by destroying what's their legacy.
And even if you aren't destroying their legacy directly,
doing something like supporting, like if I was dead and my children,
in assuming I had any, were to start passing, to bring it back to their last episode,
anti-abortion legislation, that I would hope that at least they would think
this would really piss off Yinesh.
This is harming the memory of what he would want, you know?
Yeah.
And I think, you know, the only time I can think of anyone saying it like,
you know, fighting free ancestors is like, you know, Viking Norse, you know, Thor stuff.
And I think-
That used to be a much bigger deal.
Yeah.
But to make your ancestors proud was less about like,
maybe it was like you actually thought that they were up there caring about this,
but it might be more like, you know, they didn't fight to, you know,
keep Scotland independent.
And I'm not talking about Vikings anymore.
Only for me to give it up.
Right, exactly.
I'm not gonna piss on their sacrifice by giving this in.
The people didn't fight Hitler in World War II just so that we could censor the
fuck out of everyone now and start burning books and shit.
Right.
Or have Nazis now.
Or have Nazis.
Yeah.
Either way.
Yeah.
So.
And I mean, those were the two that I came up with.
Gwern, I think, did a much deeper dive.
And at one point, which I was like, oh, that's cool.
And he pointed out that people used to have much more reverence for objects.
Like you could actually harm a forest or harm a river.
And that was a morally bad thing in some cultures.
Japan even as little as a hundred years ago, I think.
The, you know, leading religion in Japan is Shintoism,
which still has that kind of reverence for objects.
Yeah.
And that was, that is another thing that, at least in the Western society,
we have drastically gotten away from.
Like you can't really nowadays hurt a book by burning it.
I think we still have reverence for religious objects.
People get really upset if you burn a Bible.
Or desecrate one of the communion hosts.
Yeah. There is, I guess, some special exceptions to the most part.
At my first ham, there was somebody who gave a presentation.
I want to say it was Masimo Puclucci, but it doesn't sound like his field.
So I'm not sure who it was.
But, and I think that the, well, what they found was that people,
they would like, hey, you know, thought experiment,
I'll give you a hundred bucks to give me your wedding ring.
And I'll duplicate it and give you the copy.
And I'll make it, you know, like a Star Trek multiplier thing.
Just give you the backup.
And like in the thought experiment, people would be like,
I don't want to do that.
Like this is mine.
It's, you know, it's, it's my whatever magic imbued essentialism to it.
Right. Yeah.
And he was like, it turns out this finding wasn't that sharply diminished,
if at all, in the secular community as it was in the religious community.
So people still like care about like the original version of their thing.
People definitely form attachments to objects.
Yeah.
Whether or not it's the same level of reverence.
Yeah, it certainly, it certainly can't be punished.
Well, I guess you can be punished by law in some way for damaging someone's property.
And I mean, if you're throwing a fit over a burnt Koran or a burnt Bible,
you're not doing it because it was your favorite copy of that book.
Right.
You know, and it was, you know, unless it was like the one
that your family's passed down for generations or something.
But it was just one you saw on TV.
You're doing it because you think that there's,
you think that you're doing actual harm that like the greater the universe is now
pissed at, you know, us or something, right?
But like no one here would put someone's way,
a friend losing an arm versus a Picasso painting being burned up, right?
As in like one's worse, like because one, no one here would choose.
Yeah, I want my friend to lose their arm rather than this painting being burned.
Yeah, totally.
It'd be like an art historian.
Maybe an art historian, but I would call that person a bad person.
Not a good friend.
Yeah, exactly.
Whereas more in the past, that would have been a much bigger deal.
Interesting.
All right, that's that's something to think about.
Yeah, I think we're got off topic though.
What was this about?
Decisions and discoveries.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
So what's what's the difference, I guess?
Like I said, I think the decision is when you when you make the choice to implement what you found
through through your moral introspection or broadening horizons or something, right?
So from the inside, a moral change always feels like a discovery?
I think so.
Certainly on the scale of a lifetime, maybe on the scale of a society,
because that's how it's felt for me.
It's me, I'll read something or I'll come to realization and I'm like,
oh, that's how I should be doing things.
I think this goes hand in hand with how whether or not you feel that you have a choice in your
moral intuitions.
Like I think both of us said, we don't feel, did you say this to just that we don't feel like we
have any choice in our moral beliefs?
No, I like that's why they feel like discoveries.
I made the distinction that I feel like I have a choice, but I think that I don't actually have a choice.
Right, right, right.
Old free will thing.
Yeah.
I think most people probably feel like they do have a choice.
I mean, because we feel like we have a choice of everything we do.
We don't feel like we have a choice over what we believe, though.
We feel like we have a choice if we drink tea or coffee, but not if we...
We should get some neurotypical people to ask on this.
Like, do you have a choice to believe this guy is blue?
Where's neurotypical Karen when you need her?
I'll put that on.
Like this is actually, I can't remember the full...
Yes, I do.
Well, it was me and a friend were debating, you know, this was like the quintessential
like hipster coffee shop with a bookstore in it.
And me and this guy were sitting around debating philosophy for like 30 minutes
and Rachel was sitting there.
She was bored and she'd wandered around the bookstore and she came back
and we're talking about justice or fairness or something about like returning, you know,
the whole Socrates example of like, is it just to return someone's axe?
If you've barred it, well, of course that's justice.
Well, what if they're going to murder somebody with it?
Well, then no, of course not.
And so we were like going back and forth like, well, if we were sure they're going to kill
somebody with it or kill themselves with it or something.
And Rachel's like on her phone or something.
She's like, without looking up, she's just like, I would just call the cops.
That's a very good answer.
And it was very grounding because like that we're getting so esoteric about this
with all this mind reading bullshit.
She was like, why don't you just do like the thing that makes actual sense?
And I'm like, that's, that's a really good point.
So the challenge or to do my best to put on her hat here, like you don't,
you don't decide that you're, you know, you look at your hand.
Like you don't decide that there's five fingers and or five digits,
whatever, if you're going to be pedantic.
If you look at my hand, right?
Or that I'm wearing a ring, like you don't, you don't get to decide that you,
you don't get to decide, I'm going to choose to believe he's not wearing one,
even though I can see it.
So like in some sense, moral, our moral discoveries like that, or are they like
something else?
