I think it's the question, right?
Like I'm just going to decide that slave recent bad thing.
Yeah.
Or could you decide it's a good thing?
What if somebody's just really torn up about it?
And then they like spend a very long time researching and pondering,
and then they come to a decision.
Well, you spend a really long time researching and pondering about the
physical laws of the universe too, but you don't come to a decision of what
they are.
You come to it to discover what they are.
And you think those are equivalent?
I think that they feel equivalent at any rate.
We might, we might be hitting this as hard as we can for now.
We haven't resolved it, but we might be, if we want to.
We've run out of words to say on it.
We did, I think there at least was, I touched on how I think the systematic
direction arises causally.
And is there, well, I guess, what do you guys think?
Is there a systematic direction that these have been moving in that
discovery or decisions of morality?
So I gave my answer a while ago.
Yeah.
I think that as society has become richer and more convenient,
everything has become much less restrictive because we have the
luxury to be who we actually want to be.
So in that, in that respect, yes, but that's because we are rich now as a
people and we can afford to indulge in those things.
We can afford to live morally, but maybe like you could be a philosophical
vegetarian, you know, 700 years ago, but you're like, if only I didn't.
No, we're philosophical vegetarians.
Yeah.
Right.
And they had the luxury of having enough, like,
vegetation to eat, but you could be like a farmer or whatever, some peasant.
And you're like, I wish I didn't have to kill and eat these animals,
but I'm hungry and there's no other food around.
So like, you're just, there's the difference between like having the moral
judgment and then being able to live by the implications of that judgment.
And that could be driven by circumstance.
Like my help, my nice, whatever, nicely sourced food budget goes down when I,
you know, made less money, right?
So.
Well, I don't think it's a coincidence that the richer a area or society gets,
the more liberal it gets.
Yeah.
And also conversely, you know, the poorer an area is, the more conservative it is.
Well, I think the farmer from your example, Stephen,
probably doesn't actually have the time to sit there and like think about
whether or not eating meat is ethical.
Maybe he heard the argument once and was convinced by it.
I mean, like, and now we're stretching the thought experiment,
but I guess I'm saying is that it's possible for me like to buy unethically sourced food
because I'm making 10 bucks an hour.
And I'm like, I sure wish I didn't have to buy cheap, you know,
harmly sourced food to sustain myself.
And yes, through a ton of extra work, I could probably make stretch my $10 to buy,
you know, nicer sourced food, but I just don't have the other resources to do that,
like time and energy.
But then when the resources open up, you can, right?
So it's that kind of the slack to have the freedom to do those things.
Yeah, I think the slack is exactly what I was trying to describe.
Like, not only the ability to actually afford to eat vegetarian,
but like the time and I guess the education.
That works.
No, we'll move on.
I think you're up next, Jess.
Yeah, suppose I involuntarily administered to you.
We're on number five.
Sorry.
To paraphrase Alfred Tarski, the statement,
my car is painted green is true if and only if my car is painted green.
Similarly, someone might try to get away with asserting the statement,
human deaths are bad is true if and only if human deaths are bad.
Is this valid?
Okay, well, as the guy with the blog called death is bad, I think this is absolutely valid.
And I think that it is true that human deaths are bad.
So the next obvious thing here to point out is like, I can point to my green car.
My car is actually some shade of green, but I can't point to death being bad anywhere.
No, you cannot.
But you can point to the fact that there is no intrinsic value anywhere in the universe,
that things are only valued in as much as people value them.
And if you remove people, you remove all sorts of value.
But I don't remove the greenness of my car.
Right.
So if you're removing value and the ability for things to have value, that's a bad thing.
So don't go wrong.
I agree with you, but I could see how this doesn't sound convincing.
Okay, right.
Well, I like with without something to place value on stuff, then you don't have any value at all.
So destroying that is just, I don't want to say, no, I'm not going to say that.
I don't want to as I won't.
Exactly.
I don't know how else to put it aside from that.
You know, if the only things that can give things value are destroyed, then value has been destroyed.
So you're both kind of making an observer argument.
Well, I think I'm being more facetious about my observing than you are.
I think you're right.
It's just like the difference that someone might test to and he brings up math later,
which is a great thing because I can't point to two plus two equaling four anywhere, right?
I can, I guess, grab two things and grab two other things and put them together.
We can call those things four things.
But that's also something that only exists in the head of a being that can comprehend it.
Yeah.
I mean, if you got a colorblind person and you said, look, my car is green.
I mean, so we could do digits again in my hand or something.
I guess the difference is that like there's there's facts of there's objective facts about nature
and then there's subjective facts about what it's like to experience things.
And death is bad because it makes us all sad.
It cuts off the person's subjective ability to go on and do things and their actual ability to.
So like, I guess I'm just trying to take this from the point of view of someone
who doesn't agree with it and why I wouldn't find that like there seems to be a step missing.
And like the the justifying the leap between like pointing at stuff and pointing at subjective
perceptions, whether it's value judgments or something else, right?
Well, OK, to be fair, in not 100 percent of cases,
do I think all death is always bad?
There are sometimes where people genuinely want to die.
And I remember the the suicide twins story from Sweden, I think, 10 years ago,
with these just two blind, badly disabled, chronically depressed twins who really
it looked like they had nothing to live for.
I would never make that judgment for someone.
But for them, life was awful.
They said it was awful.
They wanted to die.
And they eventually managed to to have I think it was doctor assisted suicide.
And that's very sad.
But I would not want to force anyone to live if they don't want to live.
I wouldn't want to force them to live.
But I feel like the idea of death is bad isn't just saying that like
if the Earth stayed the same way it was today, but we got rid of death, that would be great.
Like the sentiment, I think, is they wouldn't have wanted to die if they hadn't been born.
In horrible pain or whatever it was.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
People generally don't want to die if they're not like if they don't have major
depressive disorder or right.
And and so that's death is bad in almost exclusively because people don't want to die.
And that is, I mean, like I said, people are what give things value.
So if everybody wants to live, then dying is bad.
And there's some very rare exceptions where people may legitimately want to not live anymore.
And I would really encourage them to find other ways to to deal with that then killing
themselves because lots of times it turns out life actually does get better.
There are things you can do.
But in some case, I can see how death might not be bad in very rare exceptions.
But again, that's why I'm saying without people, there is nothing at all because
people have to want to not die to make that bad.
All comes back down to the whole idea of either desire utilitarianism is what Alonso
Fife called it, preference utilitarianism is what some people call it, like wanting something
makes it either good or bad.
Yeah, I was inspired right now.
That was good.
I would add the caveat, you know, the those conjoined twins or whatever that were in pain,
like they presumably would have wanted that fixed before they wanted to die.
And they look around and they're like, there's no way to fix this.
And so I would say that for anyone, you know, in any situation where it's like I'd rather
die than have this, like, well, can you solve this in any other way?
And sometimes the answer is no, unfortunately.
But I think more often than not answers yes, or at least there's a way to like get by with it.
And then hold on long enough for technology to catch up to where you need it to be,
or at least try to.
But yeah, I guess what I'm saying is that I if somebody sounds like they're a sound moral
mind, and they're like, well, I want to kill myself, I feel like life sucks.
I would say like that sounds like a symptom of depression.
And like you're you're saying that this is like the most rational decision you can come to right
now, you wouldn't feel that way if you were psychologically healthy.
You should try and get there first and see if you still feel this way.
So it sounds like the point of this one was that the car being painted green is a measurable fact
about the universe which exists.
And human death being bad is true to humans.
Yeah, it's a measurable fact that people don't want to die.
Cool.
Yeah, but I mean, like you have to still define the word bad there.
Okay, it's bad in that we don't want it.
Yeah, like the universe doesn't care if humans die.
No, no.
Unfortunately, it'd be a really nice universe if it did.
Anyway, Eneash sounds like sounds like we're delving into
theological territory with that last one.
We are, yes.
I was going to say we should just keep going because that'd be a whole new episode.
Well, in one sentence, that was one of the things that one of the things that drove me
away from religion was as a kid, I was like the world wouldn't look,
the universe wouldn't look like this was built from scratch by somebody who just built the Earth.
Oh, hell no.
Well, I would be like a little like marble flying through space that's gigantic.
It would be like this like infinite flat plane or, you know.
Oh, you mean just like the physical structure?
I read a lot of biology books when I was a kid.
That too.
I didn't read biology books, but that's life is horrifying.
And yeah.
But yeah, it was like looking around at nature like this.
It doesn't make any sense.
But of course, you know, the mind of God is incomprehensible or something.
I'm like, the universe clearly doesn't care if bad things happen to good people.
So or to people at all.
Right.
Yeah.
So that's that's not that it was really just like a like a 10 year old coming across
like the problem of evil and like having realized like, oh,
theology hasn't answered a 10 year old's question.
