I don't know who to contact at Barnes and Noble and they wouldn't listen to me anyway.
They'd be like, yeah, you're Joe Schmoe.
You know how many Joe Schmoes approaches.
So you had a thing at the bookstore downtown last year.
I did.
And I'm probably going to get a stock in this one, but that's because they're a local
bookstore that, you know, I know the owners.
I don't know.
I mean, this is just my journal advice or anything, but you said you wouldn't even
know how to get in hold of them.
Just Google how to market a book to Barnes and Noble and see if there's a phone
number to call or someone, an email.
I'm really sure they're just going to be annoyed that another guy from not a publishing
house is trying to contact them.
Maybe everybody thinks that and no one tries and they have like shelves ready
for books.
Oh, there are so many awesome horror stories about about the guy who gets
contacted by the person who thinks their book is the shit.
And when they're turned down, they go on this rant for pages about how you don't
know good writing when you see it and all that.
Yeah, it's kind of hilarious.
I mean, to be fair, that stereotype person is out there in droves.
Yeah, we had like people that when I worked at the library, we're trying to
like bring their own books that they had written.
And like, can you put this in the library?
Yeah, like no, there were a few that have been like local authors that had
actually been published and we're like, absolutely.
We'll put you in our like little, we had a little South Jersey history section
and South Jersey authors.
But like, yeah, then somewhere like, you know, some manuscript that they had
printed on their printer and it was stapled.
This is my book.
And it's like, we're a very small library.
We can barely fit the amount of books that we have right now.
So we're not in the archive.
Aren't places to donate books?
No, you can't donate books.
Was that a joke?
That wasn't that was a real question.
So I shouldn't go to library.
Oh, we're getting, we've got like 30 books we're getting rid of.
I don't know.
So don't take them to the library.
Um, well, when you bring books to the library to donate, generally what
happens is they either get put in like the little free public libraries
to be distributed or they get sold in the library's book sale to raise funds
for the library, but libraries have limited space and they do actually have
to stock like they run statistics on what gets checked out the most and what
people have the most interest in.
I think they make me sit there while they do all this for all my books.
No, they will take the books and be like, thank you.
Oh, good.
And then people think they're going to get stuck on the shelves, but generally
they are duplicate of something the library already has or are destined for
book sale or to be given away, which they're still, yeah, they're still going
to good places.
Um, all right, that works.
Anyways, that's everything that I had.
Thank you guys for indulging me for, for a little while.
So check out what lies dreaming on Amazon in when this episode airs.
Yes, I'll have a link in the show description or just, you know, search
for it yourself.
Great.
Yeah, that's what lies dreaming.
Uh, okay.
We should go on to our topic.
Yes.
So last time I gave a quick shout out to the, uh, consolidated morality thread,
but I forget the full name now.
Consolidated nature of morality thread.
Excellent.
And, uh, you guys were like, Hey, this is actually interesting.
Why don't we actually talk about it?
And I was like, okay.
So now we have an episode where we're going to be talking about that.
And I'm sorry, I, I sounded more, um, bled about that that I meant to just now.
I was now, I guess we're going to talk about it.
Oh God, you were more, you're more exasperated that you were like, why
didn't you say that we could have done this?
And we still can.
And you're like, we can.
And so we're here.
Here we are.
Yes.
Yeah.
We're doing it.
Awesome.
I was going to bring on a friend of the podcast, um, Lyric Lee to, uh, be our guest
on this and I was only able to ask her last night and, uh, I phrased it in such
a way that didn't come off as like a request to come to the show.
And then when I got, when they got back to me this afternoon, it was like, you
know, five hours out and there wasn't time, but I had said, Hey, um, I know it's
short notice, but we're discussing this post tomorrow and you're the best
resource I know to help us navigate it.
I thought it was implied.
They're like, you should come and help us navigate this.
But they wrote us a very long, uh, detailed reply here, which will be nice to
go through as much as we can.
Um, cause it covers a lot of the beats that I think they would have been able
to hit in person too.
Um, what was I going to say about the other thing on the episode?
Oh, I mean, I want to, I only have the person who took notes, so thanks guys.
I have my notes in my head.
Okay, great.
Well, I'm also all over the place today.
So everyone can enjoy that.
I'm getting used to like working at home for 60% of the time.
And it turns out when I'm at home and have no distractions, I just like grind for
too long and it really wears me out, which you'd think would be the opposite.
Like I'm at home, I can get up and do stuff.
I'll go to the dishes and like I don't, I'll run downstairs and like I keep, I drink
a ton of water, so I'll like change out water bottles from the fridge.
And then I'll see them and like, no, I'll get them later.
So yeah, it's weird.
Are you on Madafnil when you do this?
Yeah.
I hear that Madafnil really makes you hyper focused.
It's not so much that.
And I mean, it could be.
I'll try less tomorrow.
Yeah, that's not the problem I have when I work from home.
Yeah, I don't know.
My thing is just like, I'm also desperate to like make sure I'm doing things.
Like if I'm at work, people can see me trying.
It's different.
We're trying at home.
They don't even know that I'm doing anything.
So like, I need to think about your results.
I need something to work by the end of the day.
Oh, yeah.
It's kind of interesting.
Yeah, I think it'll it'll level out when I get better at the stuff.
It sounds like more people should work from home.
I think if you have a job that allows it, there's a lot of jobs that, you know,
you go to the office just to make a presence.
Like, yeah, if you have to send something at the end of the day that like is a bug
fix or, you know, you've written a new program, you're showing your results.
Whereas if you're in an office, you have to just look busy.
Yeah, that's the worst, which is so much of the job.
I am my last place going to the office every day with a big company
and like upper management never is around.
So you're as long as you're like in the building, nobody knows or cares where you
are. So like, you can be like, well, I've been here all day.
I'm going to go home now, guys.
And it's it's a whole different environment.
So I found that being being in an environment where you're
watched makes makes me anyway work slower.
Because when I when I know that I just got to do the thing
and then I have my time to read or surf the net or write or whatever you do the thing
in 10 minutes. Yeah, exactly.
But like when I can't do that, because if I'm not working, it looks like I'm slacking off.
I'm like, well, going to be a slow day of very leisurely moving numbers
around on spreadsheets, because it doesn't matter.
Control C, move the mouse, control V.
Don't want to strain any muscles while I'm doing this.
Yeah. Well, that's, well, that's the measures from working from home.
Not very exciting, but it's an interesting different pace for me.
So and it explains I'm trying to justify why I'm, you know, I'm bracing myself,
bracing everybody for my performance here in the next I feel like this part
could be cut out for the patrons.
Maybe that whole part for everybody.
They all get to hear they all deserve an explanation.
Yeah, I don't know if like, I don't know if I'm doing so good.
It's spreading sequences, the anime.
Damn it, you're just making things worse for everyone.
It'll happen to you, too.
It's infectious.
All right, so diving in.
So we mentioned that there were 10 kind of bullet points in this thread.
And his purpose of writing this was saying, you know, I'm going to be
talking about morality stuff later, rather than get bogged down
with all this stuff every time we do a morality related post.
Just have that conversation here and save the comments, a lot of the trouble.
I'm not 100 percent sure what, like, why that should be.
I guess not to rehash the same argument over and over.
Specifically, it was distinguishing between moral judgments and factual beliefs.
Right. And so he's got 10 kind of brain teasers,
thought experiments and just kind of intuition pumps to try and answer that
question or to address that point.
And he doesn't say this up front.
But once you get through them, you realize they're not unrelated.
They are like, like I think I said last episode, they're a stealth
takedown of the is, ought dichotomy distinction.
Yeah. Well, let's let's let's get into it.
OK, then. All right.
So the first one, it certainly looks like there's an important distinction
between a statement like the total loss of human life caused in World War Two
was roughly 72 million people, and we ought to avoid a repeat of World War Two.
And when it argues that these statements are of the same fundamental kind,
must explain away the parent structural differences between them.
What are the exact structural differences?
I think this one is pretty easy.
The first one is just a statement of fact.
This is how many people died.
And the second one is a normative statement we ought to not have.
Are we ought to avoid? Yeah. Yeah. But yeah.
So when you say normative, this is a thing that should be like
this is where we want to push reality to be like like a prescription.
Yeah. So so one's a judgment about this is basically one's an odd statement
and one's one's a reading of nature, right?
