Yeah. Yeah. So one's a just a statement of a fact, the thing that happened.
And the other one is a like a moral judgment.
Yeah. I'm reminded of the regulation sequence that we did a while ago
where I think the same issue came up.
Elisar had said something like if you create these stores that legalize all drugs,
then some poor mother of five is going to come in and buy Dr.
Snakey's oil for arthritis and die.
And people interpreted that as him saying that we should not have that store.
And that was what that whole post was kind of motivated by.
Yeah, I can easily see two people hearing the statement
that total loss of human life was seventy two million
and interpreting it as meaning the same thing as the second statement.
That sounds like you're making a negative statement about World War Two.
And that means that you personally are against World War Two.
Yeah, I could do that.
I was funny as I agree with you.
But I guess to me, it's not as obvious as an intuition leap.
Like, I mean, if I was on a game show
with someone asking how many people died in World War Two and I said seventy two
million, that's not a prescription of whether, you know, of judgment on that.
Right. Right.
It's not. Yeah, exactly.
So I think it depends on the context, though, like say somebody had asked you like,
so what do you what do you think about?
Was World War Two just?
And if you said, well, the total loss of human life was roughly seventy two
million in response to that, that would sound like you were arguing with them.
Yeah. In fact, that would be like that'd be a comeback.
Right. Or to me, that would be non sequitur.
Yes. And I think it depends.
Like you're you're packing in the value there, like, you know, unless unless
they're asking, like, so what, it wasn't enough.
I think what they're to read from that is like, oh, yeah, he thinks that the
the loss of life is unconsciously high.
That's maybe all to cover on that one.
Well, we want to the next one.
We've got ten of them.
Yeah. So like the way my only one sentence thing on that is like the second
statement packs in the first statement as just like as axiomatically bad.
Right. Yeah. I don't know.
I think they're different.
But the second one takes like the first one as a premise, like we are not.
We ought not to we ought to avoid repeating World War Two.
Why should we do that?
Because seventy two million people died.
I think the second statement is more sneaking in the assumption that
people dying is bad.
And let me read a statement to we experience some of our morals and
preferences as being voluntary choices, others as involuntary perceptions.
I choose to play on the side of rationality, but I don't think I could
choose to believe that death is good any more than I could choose to believe
that the sky is green.
What psychological factors account for these differences in my perceptions
of my own preferences?
So I think that is there's a couple things to look at this one.
One are some of our moral preferences are voluntary and others seem like
involuntary perceptions.
Like maybe we see like babies getting murdered as like involuntarily like,
oh, my God, that's terrible.
And others kind of need you to look at it and scratch your head and be like,
you're right, we shouldn't be doing that to chickens or something.
But it's not as involuntary, maybe.
Or what is there?
Or is he saying that we experience some of our morals that way
or our perceptions that way.
But in fact, that's an illusion.
What do you guys think?
It sounds like the second thing.
I think that the those examples are too easy.
I think more like a.
I mean, maybe maybe examples might be like factory farming and it's hard for me
because I can't think of any moral perception that I think is voluntary.
I guess when you say moral perception, that's different than moral judgment.
And even moral judgments aren't voluntary, I guess.
Like you look at factory farming and your only your judgment is like,
whether or not to live differently based on how you feel about it.
Like most people don't look at at the treatment of animals there and say,
you know what, that's great.
That's why that's why beef or something.
Right. They say that sucks, but beef's super cheap and I like it.
So most people, some people might.
That sounds I mean, to me, that sounds like a moral trade off.
The part where they say that sucks is the moral judgment.
Like I'm looking at an animal suffering and I think that is bad.
Yeah, I guess that's where I got it got held up, though,
because like I don't I don't get to choose what I think is is right and wrong.
I sort of like get these my consciousness in my my sense of moral scope is broadened.
And then I realize that new things are in my sense of moral scope.
And then it's more just like how do I want to change my life to acknowledge
that information and sometimes there's a lot of times it's very little.
So this is kind of like debating the nature of free will.
I mean, I want to say that, yeah, some of your, you know,
moral intuitions come from your upbringing.
From instincts that you have as a evolved animal.
And then like, but some of it you choose yourself, right?
Can you give me an example?
I mean, say that you were raised a Catholic and then became an atheist.
And now you're kind of moral considerations have shifted.
Well, I was raised a fundamentalist and I became an atheist.
And none of that felt voluntary to me at all.
I was vegetarian for like four years or six, I forget.
And my family definitely isn't.
They gave me a lot of shit about it.
Not like because they're mean, just because they're whatever.
Sure. But how it worked out.
Stop being morally superior to us, Stephen.
That might have been it.
But I don't think that way.
They would say stop thinking you're morally superior to us
without actually being so right.
I know that it was morally superior than they would have to feel bad about it.
I definitely think that vegetarians are morally superior to me.
Do you? Yeah.
Yeah, I think so, too.
But they're obviously right.
And we're also not giving vegetarians shit about their choice, right?
No, I think that they're very admirable people.
Exactly. But I think what you're saying is that if we were mocking them about it,
probably because we thought that they we actually thought that they were better than us.
So that was a decision that I wasn't like
wasn't part of my upbringing, part of my taking philosophy classes in college
and reading one Peter Singer essay.
And I was like, oh, shit, I'm a vegetarian now.
So I mean, I guess you can choose
to expose yourself to certain things or not to expose yourself to them.
But once you see those things, I'm not sure you have like a choice in the matter.
Yeah, there's not putting a cat back in the back of a lot of people.
I mean, I've heard people know.
I mean, like my sister saw all the same things that I did
and she's still Christian and I'm an atheist.
Yeah, that's more.
I mean, not to like say that there's no moral implications of one's religiosity,
but that's different than like a I wouldn't say like being an unbeliever is
like necessarily more morally desirable than being a religious person.
Well, but it's like what you do.
You don't think she made the intentional choice to stay Christian, though, right?
Well, I think she did.
I think a lot of people do after a certain point.
It was probably harder, I don't know.
OK, I can't read people's minds, but like my intuition is that
before there was like pretty solid proof,
or at least like very strong evidence that there is no God,
there's no evidence for God.
It was pretty easy to believe.
And now I feel like it actually like requires you make the quote unquote leap
of faith after you hit puberty or whatever, you get to a certain point
and like you start learning about science and realizing that like
magic does not seem to exist anywhere in the world.
Yeah, but it's I mean, this isn't that new of a thing.
The ancient Greeks were talking about how God's don't actually exist.
I mean, some of them it's people have been noticing that there's
no evidence for God's for a long time.
I think but lots of people believe anyway.
Some people like and just that you can't read her mind and that makes sense.
Like it's not clear that she can read her mind on this, right?
Let me know the difference between like belief and belief and actual believing
when they they have no compunctions about what
yeah, called the leap of faith, where they're just like,
I'm just going to keep believing it.
And I don't know what that means.
And I don't think any of us are equipped now.
I remember what that means.
I remember being a child and like it not feeling different.
What do I mean by that?
I was like, basically, you know, I was raised Catholic,
but I definitely compartmentalized even as a really young kid between these
are like the stories I'm told.
And this is what I, you know, I'm supposed to believe is true.
And then here's what I'm actually observing.
But you're like softwares running so hard on modeling the other people around you
that you actually believe what they say you should believe so you can conform really good.
Yeah.
I like remember being a kid.
And I think like if I, you know, went back to that headspace now,
I could actually probably like look at my own thoughts and beliefs and be like,
huh, that's really interesting.
I noticed that I'm confused that my expectations for what is going to happen
when I run around in reality and interact with physics are different
than my expectations about like what I'm supposed to believe.
Well, I mean, if everyone in your tribe is running away as fast as they can
from something, there's probably a good reason, right?
Yeah.
So you're going to do that too.
And you're also going to be scared
even though you don't know what the fuck's going on.
Yeah, your nervous system should react.
And you shouldn't just sit there thinking, OK, they're all running.
But has anyone seen like that?
I mean, I need to run.
Because in that like two minute comedy sketch of that guy jogging,
like walking in the park and he doesn't know jogging is a thing,
apparently, because he sees people jogging by and he's kind of like looking
at them running and then he's looking back at where they're running from.
And he kind of goes running the same way they were going.
And then that keeps happening.
And then like two joggers go by in different directions
and he's kind of just freaking out, doesn't know where to go.
I mean, I have not seen that.
It was it was funny.
So I guess what I'm saying, number two, is that I disagreed
