Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Enya Ashbrotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber.
I'm Jess Dickey.
And before we jump into our topic, I wanted to do a little bit of self-promotion, if I
may.
You may.
Yay!
Promotion granted.
Okay, so as some of the listeners might know, I do like to write things from time to time.
And I've written a number of short stories and I eventually realized that short stories
are good for like experimenting with one quick idea and learning how to, some of the craft
of writing.
But in the end, no one really reads short stories, no one talks about short stories.
It's not something you do nowadays if you want to have an impact and or be noticed, right?
And I want both those things.
So I started working on a novel.
This was specifically a novel that's based off one of my short stories where I ran into
the editor at one of these cons and she was like, oh my god, I loved it so much.
This was fantastic.
And I was like, oh, thank you for telling me that because I've been wanting to write something
and there was so much more I could have done and I had to cut shit out just to fit it into
the word count.
And all right, I'm totally going to do this.
So then I spent the next year and a half writing, which also contained a fair bit of reading
up on Ancient Rome.
And eventually I finished this book and I actually finished this right around the time Trump
was being sworn in, I think maybe a month or two after.
It would have been like the spring of what, 2018 then?
2017?
2018.
Because I remember you went to Burning Man for the first time that summer.
Yeah.
You sent me a PDF of your book and you said, if I die, make sure the world sees this book.
Yes, exactly.
I'm glad you were thinking ahead though.
Right, because I mean, you didn't know to expect.
Yeah, that's all I really wanted.
Just put it out there so people can see because this is what I wanted to do with these years
of my life.
Wait, did you think you were going to die from Burning Man or from Trump being elected?
No, no, no, no, no, from Burning Man, not necessarily from the Burning Man, but from
the drive there or the back.
Or maybe if I'm an idiot and I got dehydrated out in the desert and somebody didn't find
me, whatever, I don't know.
Or one of those roaming bands of cannibals got you.
Right, right, right, because it's a complete wasteland simulator, so coming with the cannibals
as well.
No, so, you know, I didn't think it was a high chance of me dying or else I wouldn't
have gone.
I thought it was basically miniscule, but non-zero, higher than if I would have just
stayed in my apartment.
I didn't mean to get you off track.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But anyways, what I'm trying to say is this book has been completed for a while.
I've gone over it several times trying to make it as good as I can.
I am releasing it online a chapter at a time if you want to read it, but when this episode
comes out, it will be out for pre-order at Amazon.com.
There'll be a one month period where you can pre-order it and then it comes out and then
everyone can buy it.
Woo-hoo!
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Congrats, man.
Thank you.
That's super exciting.
I am very excited by it, yeah.
So I put a plug for this story and you sent me the original short story and if you like
dark stuff, you should read this.
I actually had to stop reading it.
And you put worm.
And I read worm.
It was pretty dark.
Really?
It was darker than worm?
I don't know if it was darker than worm, but like it actually disturbed me enough that
I had to put it down for a bit.
Sweet.
I can see the gratification in your face.
You're like, yeah, I got somebody.
Happy he is.
That's awesome.
Yeah, no, recommended.
Yeah.
I like the short version too.
I read the first chapter, the long version, and it's not that I, I wasn't not hooked,
but my reading bandwidth is terrible because I'm a shit person.
So I spent all my time reading board right now.
So, but no, it'll be great.
That's really cool.
You were thinking of doing an audio too, right?
Not to push you into anything that you don't want to do, but I would, I would listen to
it.
Okay.
Maybe.
I don't know.
Maybe.
Maybe Steven would listen to it.
That's well.
My bandwidth for listening to things is really good.
So.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's a large undertaking.
So.
Yeah.
No doubt.
That's really cool.
Yeah.
What was I going to say about, oh, I might have mentioned this before because you're
publishing a chapter at a week, but it wasn't written serially.
No, it was written all at once.
I learned that the, the Martian was originally written as a serial fiction online, which is
like why there's so many like little cliffhanger moments in it and that it being then published
as a major book and then a major movie was like, what's the word, vindicating to like
other serial fiction authors.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he was posting it just on a forums.
Yeah.
It wasn't even like a real dedicated thing.
Yeah.
So cool.
But yeah, the chapter time story will complete sometime in, I think mid September.
So this will let people get it like two months early if they want, or, and you know, also
have the whole thing and also be.
You want people to buy it.
You're allowed to say that.
It's not that I want people to buy it necessarily.
It's that I want it to be seen and like if a bunch of people buy it on opening week,
that's like when Amazon goes, oh, hey, let's promote this to more people.
So yeah.
Have you said the name of it?
Oh, I know.
It's what lies dreaming and it's by me.
So by Niasz Brotski.
And you can also find it at whatliesdreaming.com if you wanted to like read it beforehand
or whatever.
Cool.
Yeah.
That's awesome, man.
And it's awesome.
I'm quite happy.
I originally wanted to go through like a traditional publisher, right?
And I could not get anyone at all interested in like alternate history, ancient Rome, Lovecraftian
horror.
They're like, you've got to be fucking kidding me.
No one, no one's buying alternate history right now, much less Lovecraftian horror,
alternate history.
Yeah.
So I guess I'm not enough about the market, but that sounds interesting to me.
Yeah.
Apparently they said the only alternate history that anyone is bothering to publish right
now is romance because that actually sells the rest of alternate history is like such
a niche thing that publishers don't bother.
You could make whatliesdreaming a romance.
I could actually.
I could.
Yeah.
I could see it be marketed as a romance, but also like if it contains Lovecraftian monsters
in what sense is it like alternate history?
Well, it's alternate history, but like it's alternate history in the same way that like
Harry Potter's version of World War II was alternate history, but that wasn't an alternate
history book.
Yeah.
It was it was a fantasy book.
Alternate history can be like a historical setting with fantasy elements.
Yeah.
It's like a Lincoln and Zombies.
You have to make up your own continent.
Yes.
Forget that.
It's got certain tropes.
It's called second world fantasy and that's what people generally want.
If it's just set in the past of our own world, it's some version of alternate history.
It's the past of a different version of our world.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, that's the weird thing because alternate history usually focuses on how history
would be different if certain events and it had changed, right?
And this book does not focus on that at all.
It's just it happens in that time period.
That's my understanding of alternate history, too.
So I mean, I'm not the the people who know these things are defined the categories, but
it didn't.
If you're calling, you know, what if, you know, JFK survived this assassination and
I'm going to write a book about the decade after that.
Yeah.
That's traditional alternate history.
If that's alternate history and what universe is, you know, hey, it's ancient Rome with
a lot of fictional characters who get, you know, there's magic and shit involved.
Like that's those can't be in the same category to me.
I don't know how publishers categorize things, but I'm saying they do it wrong.
All right.
But I was, yeah, that part, that really sucked for a while, but I got to see what it's like
to like commission your own cover artist and have to do all your, all the, you know, interior
stuff by yourself and have a higher cover designer to put it all together.
I don't know.
It was interesting, single process.
I've been on the other side of it, so that's kind of fun.
The only the only bummer part is that like, I do not have the skills or the time to go
around to bookstores and get it in bookstores.
