that there's some moral beliefs that are voluntary choices.
So he's not saying that some are and some aren't.
He's saying that we experience them that way.
So are there any that you experience as voluntary choices?
Because I don't I don't really think I do either.
I don't know.
I think I absolutely experience becoming an atheist as a voluntary choice.
But I just what I was saying about free will is I don't know that I believe
that it really was a voluntary choice.
You know, like people are born with their personality types.
And I had like a very high openness.
And I guess my sister had a high conformity.
That's interesting.
Yeah, I don't know anywhere that I'm at now that I felt like I decided to get there.
It's more just like either I was like, oh, I guess that's the way to go.
And I went there or I pushed that way and just, you know, by mountains of argument
or evidence or something, right?
I can't remember.
And I don't think I could decide to push back at this point.
So no, I forget it.
I'm going to change my mind on the moral salience of animals or something.
So that's that's the next part of the post.
It's like, I don't think that I could choose to believe death is good anymore
than I could choose to believe the sky is green.
I think if we read point number three,
this might clarify a little bit with what he was saying.
Cool.
Any us three point three.
Sorry.
I forgot that it was my turn at a relatively young age,
children begin to believe that while the teacher can make it all right to stand on your
chair by giving permission, the teacher cannot make it all right to steal from someone else's
backpack.
I can't recall the exact citation.
Do young children in a religious environment believe that God can make it all right to
steal from someone's backpack?
And I think that's where he was going that maybe the the the rules based morality,
the rule giver can make something morally true or not true.
Well, I think to me, the difference there is that there's not a moral statement about
standing on your desk, like no one's hurt or anything, right?
And not damaging somebody or something.
Well, you're damaging the desk, maybe, but whatever.
I guess as a as a young kid, though, if I didn't know what morality was yet,
if the teacher told me it was wrong, then I might believe that it was wrong.
Interesting.
I guess I don't remember being a kid that much.
Yeah.
So they didn't say this is morally bad and you shouldn't do it.
They just said don't because it's wrong.
And like as a kid, you might.
You often don't even get that because because it's wrong, but you just say don't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And which is how I remember being told not to stand on desks was don't not you shouldn't
because it's bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Whereas like if I had taken somebody from something, they might say don't you shouldn't
steal because that's bad, right?
Right.
Right.
Maybe yeah, I guess the fact that it's dealing with kids kind of takes away some of that.
Although I do think that there's been questions asked about this sort of thing,
whether it be like in Jonathan Haidt's book or maybe Paul Bloom, anyone who's written on
like child psychology and morality and stuff.
I think that this is definitely a question that's certainly been asked by somebody.
So if anyone Googles it and finds out, that'd be cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think as to the second part, do they believe that God can make it all right to steal from
someone's backpack?
Yeah, I think so.
People believe that God can make it okay to kill people.
Some adults certainly say that they believe that, right?
Yeah.
So it has to it seems to follow the kids and think that way too, unless kids are like
more morally pure or something.
I don't think so.
I don't think so either.
There's so many stories in the Bible about God asking people to just do buckwild things.
And in most of them, he doesn't change his mind partway through and say it was a test
or something.
He just says, go ahead and set your daughter on fire for me.
So yeah, I don't know what to make of that.
I mean, I also don't know what to make the adults who say that if God came down tomorrow
and said it's great to rape and hurt people, that I would then go forth and feel it's an
obligation to do it.
I don't know if they're serious or like if they
really believe that because I don't believe anyone doesn't do something because it says
not to in the Bible.
Maybe some people do and let me rephrase that then.
I don't think any significant number of people are running around not murdering people because
the Bible says doubt shall not kill.
Right.
They're not they're not doing it because they don't want to go to prison and because they
don't want to kill people.
And it's mainly the second one, right?
I think a lot of it is just the social environment.
It's not because the Bible says not to kill people.
It's because their pastor and their neighbors and everyone in the community says don't kill
people.
And sure, they use the Bible as a backing for that.
But the Bible has lots of things it says in there that the rest of their community is
not enforcing, like don't eat shellfish.
Yeah, but what about gay people in the Bible belt who don't have sex with other gay people
because they feel horrible guilt?
I think, well, yeah, but I think that was inculcated into them by their culture.
Everyone's saying that this is wrong.
This is bad.
Yeah, but they're saying it because it was from the Bible, though.
But there's lots of other things that their culture ignores that are in the Bible.
So I think the Bible is the term proximate college shit.
Now I don't know my vocabulary.
I think that sounds right.
What you're saying is that they're not ashamed and burdened by their cause of homosexuality
because it's in the Bible.
They're burdened by their society.
Yes, and their society is based on the Bible.
No one's up at night because they're wearing woven fabrics or eating shellfish, right?
Yeah.
And this society is fucked up because of the Bible.
There's some things that chose not to ignore, which is stupid,
but it's society is the ultimate enforcer of these things.
Right on.
Is my opinion.
So what do you make of the difference between the kids thinking that it's all right,
or the kids thinking that it's not all right for the teacher to make it all right to steal
from a kid's backpack, but thinking that it is all right if God does?
I think that's just the kids noticing that their teacher is not all of society.
Okay, explain that more.
Well, the teacher is imbued by society with the power to say standing on your desk is wrong,
but society will not go so far as to make the kid does not believe society would go so far as
to back up the teacher if they were to say taking stealing from other people's backpacks is wrong.
Okay, so the kids understand that society is stronger than the one teacher.
In some respects, yeah, I think they correctly intuit that no one gives
two fucks about the rules the teachers make about standing and not standing on the desk,
but that there would be greater repercussions if the teacher started making rules about stealing.
That may contradict everyone.
That might make sense.
If I remember being a child at all, my reasoning might have been something like,
I'm not afraid that my parents are going to be mad because I did something bad.
They're going to be mad because the teacher got mad at me because I disobeyed an order from the
teacher, whereas they might be disappointed in me if I stole from somebody's backpack.
All right, and as a kid, that's like your society, your classroom and your parents.
I don't know, maybe I'm wrong about that, but if the studies did indeed show that, that would be
my intuition that it feels like a moral fact of the universe because that's what being taught
morals by our society feels like, but that ultimately it's not obviously because they are
just a moral fact of the universe. It's something else.
Steven, four.
All right, both human, excuse me, both individual human beings and civilizations appear to change
at least some of the moral beliefs over the course of time. Some of these changes are
experienced as decisions and others are experienced as discoveries. Is there a systematic distinction
to at least some of these changes? And how does this systematic decision, excuse me,
how does this systematic direction arise causally? So these aren't five questions. These are five
jumping off points, right? So there's a lot in here. So I guess...
I said it's going to be a whole episode.
What are some examples of discoveries versus decisions? That's what I wanted to ask.
So society might have made a decision about like ending slavery or desegregating schools.
That was like... I guess maybe the discovery came first. Maybe that's how the order that
it's usually happens in. Maybe that's partly how these things causally arise is that...
The discovery that you can use slaves or the discovery that...
That slavery is wrong.
That slavery is wrong. Okay.
Or in the case of the 1960s, desegregating schools turns out, oh, you know what, that is a bad thing.
And then it took some arguing and some social demonstrations to pass legislation to make that
change, right? But it seems like the discovery comes before the decision.
Isn't the real discovery in quotes here that all humans are of equal moral worth on the outset?
I want to say all men are created equal, but that's problematic nowadays,
both because of the men and because of the created part.
But to take older phrasing, isn't the discovery all men are created equal?
Well, I think...
And then the decision is to like, well, now that we've discovered that we can't have slaves
anymore, because what the fuck, guys?
Okay, I was thinking about it in terms of agriculture being a discovery.
And yeah, something like the decision to desegregate schools being a decision.
Because we have been doing things this one way, but we debated about it.
People changed their minds and now we realize this is bad.
So we're going to do it this other way.
Whereas like with the discovery that you can do agriculture, it's just...
So are there any moral discoveries then under that paradigm?
I think it...
I was thinking of a slightly different direction where like you discover...
So like to take the all men are created equal example that had a very narrow definition
when it was first uttered, right?
Which one?
All men are created equal.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
So it was that, you know...
Oh, in this context, women are men too.
Oh, and black people are men too.
And some people, or you know, you could say humans are created equal instead of men,
make the quote less annoying.
Humans evolved equal.
Yes.
And then if you make it more generic, and that's sort of...
I think the direction of moral progress is that the moral horizon keeps going up
or keeps expanding, right?
I would argue with that.
Well, I think part of it is like you realize that there's...
