Yeah.
You'd believe something incorrect if, if I made you change your mind with drugs.
Yeah.
I think the problem is that we agree too much on all these things.
Well, that's why I'm trying to play doubles advocate.
Okay.
And I'll, I'll see what else we can do here.
It's also because like this is like an accepted canon of the rationalist community,
basically.
That's true.
So like there, there's going to be, you know, discrepancies between people, but there's,
I don't know, this is sort of like everyone here kind of agrees that death is bad.
Like there, or what are like the other things that we think like probabilistic judgments and.
Science.
Good.
Yeah.
Death bad.
Death bad.
All right.
Number seven, although the statement, my car is painted green is presently false.
I can make it true in the future by painting my car green.
However, I can think of no analogous action I could take that would make it right to kill people.
Does this make the moral statement weaker, stronger, or is there no sense in making the
comparison?
So like I can change a fact about my car, but I can't change a fact about killing people.
Right.
Well, I think you can change facts about what is desired and masked by humanity.
Yeah, you could lie about somebody.
Yeah.
Oh, I killed them because they were a child rapist and I have faked evidence.
I think, I think pinning it down to individual people or like hypothetical or or thought experiment
people.
Yeah.
Isn't the point of the thought experiment because like you, I mean, I think is it all right to kill
whatever the next big terrorist before, you know, as he's driving to shut up his car bomb?
Sure.
Right.
So I think it's, but like, is it all right to kill people?
Yeah.
It's a different question.
I think that one would be very hard to ever change because if you did manage to get the
species on board with not desiring life, you wouldn't have a species for much longer.
But I think there's other things that can be changed.
I think that people should be treated as if they are all equal is something that used to
not be considered a truth and now is.
By enlighten folks anyway.
Yeah.
So over the course of history and many generations of effort, we have managed to make a more a
altering moral statement or introduce a new one, I suppose.
And yet there's no way that like, I guess I could think of ways where society could swing
its back, right?
Through enough propaganda or something, but then we'd all just be wrong.
We wouldn't be changing a fact about the world if I like if I painted my car, right?
So I'm taking that as granted.
I think if you manage to somehow through a combination of like biohacking and meme hacking,
get to a point where everyone truly desired to only be around people that looked and thought
very similar to them and did not want to be around people who were different, but it actually
like gave them emotional pain to do that, that it could be morally right to.
Kill those people if they came into your neck of the woods.
No, not killed because people still want to live, but to treat outsiders differently and
to discourage them from being around you.
I think that's the same equivalent as giving you the magic potion.
Yeah, that's just tricking.
That's just instead of magic potion, we're just fucking with you through propaganda and biohacking.
Yeah, if what you define is you as like a snapshot of your preferences at the time,
and then like something perverts that, then like humanity would not be the humanity that you
bioengineered to make racist.
So then I'm wondering, does that make the moral statement stronger, weaker, or is there no
sense in making that comparison to change the subjective preference?
It seems like a weak word for it to change the subjective judgment about the nature of morality
and somebody.
It's changed that person.
So it doesn't seem like it makes the question that makes the comparison weak or strong.
It just seems like there's no sense in making it.
Change, you know, changing somebody's subjective experience of something or perceptions is
different than changing the number of or changing the, you know, the paint on my car.
Right.
Well, okay, so to make this a less convenient thing, what if it turned out that having highly
integrated societies actually was bad for civilization?
I mean, it appears that the exact opposite is true that having integrated societies is better.
It fosters more creativity.
We can use everybody's talents to their best effect.
And that is why, you know, integrated Western societies are winning and working so well.
But let's say the opposite was true that it made society stagnant and unable to
work.
And these societies eventually would fall into collapse and either die to diseases that
they couldn't fight anymore because of lost technology or just be overrun by the next conquerors.
If it literally led to people being wiped out and dying,
then it probably would be a moral good to have more racist societies because it would prevent
mass suffering and death.
Right.
But I mean, that's that's just keeping with our current extrapolated our current coherent
extrapolated volition, right?
Yeah, because we don't we don't value inclusion and desegregation for their own sake.
We value them for their what we expect and are probably right about their being their like
actual consequences.
Well, I think we were wrong value them for their own sake.
But but we've come to that because it has been beneficial for the species.
Yes.
But I think like anyone it maybe I'm missing the mark here.
But like if if I was like to prove to somebody like, no, look, this will actually kill
everyone in a thousand years, like, no, I still think it's a good idea.
Then they're just wrong.
Right.
So I don't think that most people would like lean into that unless they're just posturing
for the sake of looking moral to their current people.
But well, I think the people who are left that are racist believe something similar to this.
Right.
And they're why they think they're good people.
And then they're mistaken.
Right.
So exactly.
That's the point if if I I believe that that desegregating societies is a good idea because
of, you know, again, like I said, cross cultures and it diminishes.
Well, dimension diminishes racism by being able to sit next to black people in school.
Right.
So I and I believe that's a good thing for society.
If I believe that was a bad thing for society, I wouldn't want that.
Yeah.
See, I wouldn't be racist even if I thought that it was true that interracial mingling did
cause more violence.
I would just want to change the part of our brains that makes that true.
Yeah.
Like here, I guess I'm going pro trans humanity again.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I'm anti something else coming in and changing your preferences against your
will.
And I guess I'm pro being able to hack your own source code.
I would like to be able to change my own preferences if I think that they're wrong.
Yeah.
But until we could do that and the solution was like, look, sorry,
society will just be a lot better.
Literally, everyone will be happier if we cut everything apart.
Then it's like, all right.
Well, I guess until we can fix that and let me hang out with all my friends again,
then let's just do we'll make everyone the most happy on aggregate, right?
Right.
I don't even know if I would call that racism at that point though.
No, because you're doing it for, I like, I think the best reason possible, right?
Again, so people do bad things for what they think are good reasons.
But if you learned they were actually good reasons.
Yeah.
Right.
That they would still be racism.
It just wouldn't have negative connotations anymore.
It'd be like, I want that man as my president because he's a racist.
Well, it would be more like I want that guy to move over to the next town over
and it's a bummer because I bet he's cool,
but I just know it'll ruin our society if he stays or something, right?
Okay.
Versus like I want him out because I don't like him because of whatever his height
or his skin color or something, right?
Yeah.
So, all right.
I think we're on number eight and I think that means it's your turn, Jess.
Did we skip you, Nash?
Did we?
No, I read six.
And then I did seven.
That was the potion one.
Okay.
It just took so long that we forgot.
There does not appear to be any place in the environment
where the reference of moral statements are stored,
analogous to the place where my car is stored.
Does this necessarily indicate that moral statements are empty of content
or could they correspond to something else?
Is the statement two plus two equals four true?
Could it be made untrue?
Is it falsifiable?
Where is its content?
I love how these aren't rhetorical questions.
Like they sound like they could be, but they're not.
He's like, no, no, seriously, what do you think?
So, yeah, does that mean that they're empty of content?
I certainly don't think so to take the questions in order.
It just means that they don't have external reference.
Well, I think they do have external reference.
It's the desires of sapient beings.
Yeah, it's the neurons that hold that thought.
They don't have ones that I can show you right to your face.
Yeah, I think.
I think we basically answered this earlier on accident.
Because I brought up math.
Because, yeah.
So this was very natural of him to bring up.
Damn, it's Stephen always bringing up math.
Yeah, me, the mathematician.
I'm certain I'm the worst mathematician in the room.
The statement 2 plus 4 is true.
Or yeah, the statement 2 plus 2 equals 4 is true because math, right?
So could it be made untrue?
Not really, because I mean math is its own, it's just, it's logic.
You could hit the mathematician on the head really hard,
and then they might think 2 plus 2 equals 6.
I mean, if 2 plus 2 did equal 6, then 2 plus 2 equals 4 is false.
But since it doesn't, and it can't, it's not.
So is it falsifiable?
What's fun is this is just like a logic, you know, syllogism, right?
And so like, could you falsify a logical syllogism?
