The PhD student in philosophy at the Université du Québec à Montréal and his presentation
is entitled Active Influence, Mindshaping and the Fensiest Swords of Intentionality.
The floor is yours, Hemi.
Thank you very much.
Can everybody hear me correctly?
Cool.
Okay.
So, yeah, I'm Rémi Tsizon, a doctoral student at RECAM, and today I'll talk to you about
linguistic meaning and how we should conceive linguistic meaning in the Active Influence
framework.
So, the title of my presentation is Active Influence, Mindshaping and the Fensiest Swords
of Intentionality, and I think the title will become clearer with the presentation.
Okay, so I'll start by explaining a particular approach to the problem of meaning, the problem
of linguistic meaning.
This approach takes meaning to depend on a particular kind of normative practices, and
so I'll explain what that means, what is the normativity of meaning, and in the second
part of the talk, I explain how we should, I think, understand social normativity in
general in the framework of Active Influence.
And finally, in the last section of the talk, I'll explain how we can get from this basic
account of social normativity to an account of the specific kind of linguistic normativity
which yields linguistic content or meaning.
Okay, so a bit of context.
In recent work with Pierre Poirier, which is one of the organizers of the event here,
they've developed an ecological account of communication, which is based on the ecological
inactive interpretation of the Active Influence framework, developed primarily by Brindberg,
Riedfeld and Kieferstein, among others.
According to this account of communication, communicative behavior is a behavior by which
participants in a joint action will construct and restructure a shared field of affordances,
so they will transform the patterns of salience of the affordances in their shared landscape
of affordance, and this will allow them to configure the dynamics of their interactions
so as to lead them to the local goals of the joint action they're engaged in together.
So this basic account of cooperative communication was developed with the explicit aim of avoiding
the notion of content.
We believe that we have to understand what communication is without reliance on the notion
of content in traditional account of communication.
Communication is often defined as a process by which a sender has a certain mental representation
with the content and will encode this content in a medium that it will then transmit to
a receiver which will then have access to this content.
So we wished to reject this traditional account of communication and the notion of content
that comes with it.
But I believe that the notion of content nevertheless has an important role to play in the way we
shape and regulate our linguistic interaction, and what I want to do today is explain what
I think is this social role that the notion of content plays in our linguistic practices.
That's what I would try to do here.
So what do I mean when I talk about content or meaning?
So these terms I will use them interchangeably.
So what is the type of content which I'm interested in in this talk?
So content is the kind of thing that we attribute to others when we say, for instance, that
someone believes that p or intends that p or desires that p, where p can be replaced
by any proposition whatsoever.
So when we attribute these kinds of propositional attitudes, we are attributing content to the
states of the individual that we're interpreting.
We also attribute content or meaning to the linguistic performances of individuals.
For instance, when we say that the words or expressions of somebody mean something, we
are ascribing a content to its linguistic performances.
So in the presentation here, I will really focus on the particular kind of content, which
is propositional linguistic content, because I'm interested in communication, and that
is what Brandon calls the fanciest sort of intentionality.
So there you have the reason for the title of the paper.
OK, if we want to explain what content is first and foremost, I think that we have to
recognize that content is something that is normative.
That's an important property of meaning that's often been neglected, but that was recognized
early by Wittgenstein and Sellers in the 50s.
And this idea, the idea that meaning is normative, has really been at the forefront of philosophical
discussions on meaning since 1982 around where Sol Kripti, which is here in the picture
above with the nice hat on the beach, so Sol Kripti in 1982, in his book Wittgenstein
on Rules and Private Language, argued that meaning and content is not a matter of the
properties or dispositions of a speaker, it's rather a matter of the normative status of
the speaker.
Not a matter of what the speaker does, in fact, but rather a matter of what the speaker
should do.
And arguing and speaking about the conceptual content of the concept of addition, Kripti
said in this work, for instance, that the point is not that if I meant addition by plus,
I will answer 125, speaking about an equation that has 125 for an answer, but that I should
answer 125.
So in this work, Kripti argued for the normativity of content.
And more recently, there's been a really influential and important interpretation of these thesis
developed by Robert Brandon, which is the theory of normative inferentialism.
And so below Kripti, you have Robert Brandon, which is nice beard.
So yeah, now we get to normative inferentialism.
What is that?
It's the idea that the content of an utterance will be determined by the correct circumstances
and consequences of its application.
And so the content, the meaning of an expression is to be identified with the set of things
that this expression can be inferred from and the set of things that can be inferred
from it.
And these sets will form what is called the inferential role of the expression.
So for instance, if I utter the sentence, Cognitial 2021 is a huge success.
And by that, I mean that Cognitial 2021 is a huge success.
So I'm expressing the proposition that Cognitial 2021 is a huge success.
Well that means that I ought to produce this utterance only if Cognitial 2021 is indeed
a huge success.
So that will be an appropriate circumstance of application of this utterance.
There's also a variety of intra-linguistic relationships.
For example, I ought to reject the utterance Cognitial 2021 is a failure, which is incompatible
with the content that I'm expressing.
And I ought, for instance, to congratulate the organizers if I have the chance in the
appropriate circumstances.
So there's this set of inferential relationships that an utterance has.
And this is the inferential role of the expression.
In Brandem's version of normative inferentialism, the inferential role of an expression will
be defined in terms of the set of commitments and entitlements that the speaker undertakes
in producing this utterance.
So there will be a set of things that the speaker is allowed to do and a set of things
that the speaker has to do or should do.
And these commitments, these entitlements, would form the inferential role.
So the meaning of the utterance that the speaker is producing.
And this normative status, so the commitments and entitlements that are undertaken by the
speaker, it's an important idea here, will be determined, will come from the normative
attitudes of the members of its community.
And that's because normative status does not just appear out of thin air like that.
It must depend on attitudes of ascribing this normative status.
In the terms of Brandem, and it's the classic work in 1994, it says...
Yes, what I'm telling you.
Sorry.
Okay.
Can I go ahead?
Okay.
Sorry.
I heard something.
Okay.
So Brandem says there were no commitments before people starting treating each other as committed.
So that's where we have the idea that normative status, so the commitments and entitlements
of a speaker depend on the attitudes of attributing these commitments and entitlements.
And so we come to the idea that content derives from normative attitudes concerning what
a speaker is committed and entitled to.
Okay.
I think this idea, this traditional idea in analytical philosophy of mind and language,
can be linked to a more recent development, which is the mind-shipping hypothesis and
the broader normative turn in which it is embedded in social cognition research.
According to the mind-shipping hypothesis, the primary function of social cognition
is not the discovery and the tracking of the mental states of others in order to accurately
predict their behavior, as it is usually conceived.
But rather, the primary function of social cognition is to regulate behavior according
to sets of shared social norms, scripts, and narratives, which in turn make the behavior
more regular and so more easily predictable.
And so the function of social cognition is more mind-shipping than mind-reading.
And so if we apply this to the idea of content-meaning description, we can say that ascribing
the content, a certain content to the utterance of a speaker is not a way of describing the
cognitive state of the speaker.
Which rather more a way of regulating its communicative behavior.
And so this will become clearer in the later parts of the talk.
So now we finally get to active inference.
I will spare you, I think, and yet another introduction to active inference.
Probably my introduction would not be as good as a lot of those that already been presented
in the event.
I just said that active inference is a theory which states that living systems manage to
maintain their organization by embodying a generative model, which issues predictions
of sensory input.
And in order to survive to maintain their organization, the attempt to minimize the
discrepancy between the prediction of sensory input that their generative model is issuing
and the sensory input that's coming from the world.
And so there's two ways for an organism to minimize its free energy.
It can either perform perceptual inference, which minimizes free energy by the adjustment,
the modification of the generative model so that it corresponds to the sensory input.
Or it can also actively intervene in the environment so as to make the sensory input
correspond to the sensory predictions that are issued by the generative model.
So that's a really basic introduction to active inference for you.
Okay, an important implication of active inference is the idea that organisms that attempt to
minimize free energy will in time transform their ecological niche so as to make it as
predictable as possible.
So they will alter their ecological niche.
There will be a process of niche construction by which there will be an attunement between
the agent and its niche.
And so we can extrapolate this idea through cases where the organism is a social organism
and so its ecological niche is primarily a social niche.
So it is importantly composed of the behavior of other organisms.
And so this control, this niche construction will entail the control or the regulation
of the behavior of others in the niche.
And I think that gives us kind of the basic tools that we have to devise an understanding
of social normativity in active inference.
There's been a lot of work recently on the notion of regimes of expectations.
I think that is a useful notion to understand various social phenomena.
Regimes of expectations are sets of expectations about states of the world that are characteristic
of a given cultural group.
And these sets of expectations are embedded in an ecological niche and are transmitted
to members of the cultural community.
And they allow the members of the community to share expectations concerning what behavior
is appropriate in various social settings and circumstances.
And this allows everybody to behave in a way that is easily predictable.
I think that there's an emphasis that must be put on the active participation in regimes
of expectations.
I think that regimes of expectations are not just things that are acquired and then
lead us to expect certain things in our environment.
I think that it's something that is actively enforced.
And when you learn a regime of expectations, you also obtain naturally a motivation to
enforce the regime of expectations that you're learning.
And that's an important point, I think, that we have to recognize.
OK, so why is that?
It's because, as I've said earlier, systems that minimize free energy and attempt to
have as little prediction error as possible will prefer stimuli that is regular and so
easily predictable.
And they will actively sample their niche, actively structure their niche so as to sample
this kind of regular stimuli.
And so when we have social context, hyper-social context, for instance, human societies, when
the niche is importantly composed of the behavior of others, well, this will lead to the generation
of normative expectations concerning what others should do.
And there will be normative attitudes and eventually normative sanctions in order to
make the behavior of other predictable.
So there will be a mind-shaping to make the behavior correspond to normative expectations.
