And so the idea is that we have kind of a direct link from regularity, so social regularity,
to social normativity under the active inference principle, I think, in social contexts.
OK, this idea is consistent with research on promiscuous normativity by Schmidt and others,
which has discovered that young children, when they perceive a behavior that is regular
or presented as regular, they will automatically assume that it's a behavior that is normatively
guided and so they will sanction the behavior that deviates from the norm that they project
on this regular behavior.
So they will over-generalize normativity, so they will suppose that any behavior that
is regular has to be that way and must be enforced so as to maintain the norms that
they project on this behavior.
I think that's an idea that supports the understanding of social normativity as emerging
from active inference as I've described it earlier.
There's an important point that must be recognized.
I think is that the regimes of expectations that constitute these basic normative practices
must not be constituted themselves by contentful mental states.
Even in research on normativity and social normativity, people try to explain the kind
of normative attitudes that constitute normative practices in terms of contentful mental states.
For instance, the theory of social expectations defines social expectations in terms of beliefs.
But as I said earlier, beliefs are the kind of thing that has content.
And so if we want to follow the strategy that I am advocating here and in which we try to
explain content and meaning in terms of normative practices, well, we cannot explain in turn
normative practices in terms of contentful mental states because we would obviously have
a circular explanation which goes nowhere.
So we have to produce an understanding of regimes of expectations as implicit attitudes,
implicit embodied expectations that do not rely on the explicit representation of a rule.
And I think that there's a lot of interesting work in the inactivist circles on such notions
of situated and embodied normativity, which are more akin to a skilled practice than to
the representation of a rule that can then be enforced.
For example, you can think of the kind of implicit normativity which is present when
we implicitly know at which distance we should stand from another speaker when we're talking
together.
We know that we cannot be too close, we cannot be too far, but this is not a kind of normativity
that relies on the explicit representation of a distance, for instance, in our cognitive
system.
It's more something like a skill that we acquire and that we practice together implicitly.
So I think that that's an important point.
Okay, so now we have this kind of basic understanding of social normativity and how it emerges
in active inference in communities composed of agents attempting to minimize each other's
free energy.
Okay, how do we get from this social normativity to the kind of linguistic normativity, which
I've argued, not argued, but I've suggested can constitute linguistic contents.
So now we come back to the idea in introduction, which I've briefly explained that we have
provided an ecological account of cooperative communication and this account, which we have
developed, explicitly does not rely on content.
So we didn't want to have content to be an important conceptual part of this account
of communication.
And I think that we can get linguistic normativity if we take this account of cooperative communication
and we insert social normativity to the communicative practices.
And if we do that, we will get a kind of linguistic normativity, which will eventually get us
linguistic content.
So I'll quickly explain how we can do that.
So I've said quickly earlier that communication in our view is the process by which participants
in a joint action will alter the shared field of affordances that they're navigating together
in order to more optimally reach the goals of their joint action.
And by doing that, the interlocutors manage to functionally constrain the dynamics of
their interaction.
They will create interpersonal synergies such as those described by Shannon in an earlier
talk.
And by doing that, they will more easily reach the goals of their joint action.
And so for example, if we're doing something together in a shared context, an act of pointing,
something in a shared context would allow me to highlight or activate an affordance
in our shared space.
And that would, for instance, lead me to make you do a certain behavior which would help
our interaction, the joint goals, which we're pursuing together, for instance.
So that would be an example of an act of communication in our account of communication.
So now we have this basic account of cooperative communication which does not rely on the notion
of content and communities of agents which use these acts of communication to coordinate
their behavior.
Well, these communities, they will be comprised of agents that attempt to minimize their free
energy, as I said in section two, by making each other as predictable as possible.
So there will be normative attitudes concerning the behavior of others so as to make others
as predictable as possible.
But because there are communicative practices in these communities, these normative attitudes
will also eventually concern the communicative practices of these communities.
So there will be normative attitudes that emerge concerning the relations between the
acts of communication that are used in this community.
And what I want to show is that these normative attitudes will institute normative statuses
of commitments and entitlements concerning the communicative behavior.
And as stated in normative infantialism, this gives us linguistic content.
Okay, so we can define very summarily the notions of commitment and entitlement.
For instance, a commitment is an agent will be committed to a behavior when there is
a regime of expectation in its community, according to which not performing this behavior
will generate prediction errors.
So the agent in this case is obligated, is committed to this behavior.
And we can also define entitlement in a similar way, differently, obviously.
So an agent will be entitled to a certain behavior when there's a regime of expectation
in its community, according to which performing this behavior does not generate prediction
error.
And so this behavior is allowed for this agent.
So we have these basic definitions of commitment and entitlement.
And these kinds of normative statuses will emerge from the communicative practices in
communicative communities.
For instance, suppose that an act of communication, A, is regularly accompanied by an act of communication
between these orders.
There are sets of statistical relationships between the acts of communication that are
used in the cooperative community.
But as I said earlier, these statistical relationships will be abstracted by the generative models
of the member of the community.
But because the members of the community attempt to mind shape each other so as to be as regular
as possible, they will not just learn the statistical regularity, but they will also
actively enforce them on the communicative behavior of others.
So they will form normative expectations concerning these relationships.
So an agent who produces A, which is regularly accompanied by B, and is expected in the regime's
expectations of its community, will thereby undertake a commitment to be.
So an agent who produces A has also eventually to produce B. Otherwise, this agent will
be open to social sanctions, for instance.
And so by this kind of process, there will be sets of commitments and entitlements that
will emerge from the normative attitudes concerning the behavior of the members of
the linguistic, the communicative community.
And these sets of commitments and entitlements associated with particular acts of communication
will constitute the inferential role, and so the meaning, the contents of these acts
of communication, according to normative inferentialism.
Okay, so we can now come back to our earlier example.
For instance, if I mean that Cognitio 2021 is a huge success by uttering the sentence
Cognitio 2021 is a huge success, then that means that I am committed to Cognitio 2021
being a huge success.
So that would be a language, what is called by sellers, a language entry transition.
So Cognitio 2021 being a huge success would be an appropriate circumstance of application
that would entitle me to utter the sentence Cognitio 2021 is a huge success.
And after uttering this sentence, I will commit myself to Cognitio 2021 being a huge success.
And if it's not, I'm open to social sanctions.
There will also be intra-linguistic transitions, which are relationships between acts of communication.
For instance, by meaning that Cognitio 2021 is a huge success, I am closing the possibility
for me to accept the sentence Cognitio 2021 is a failure, for instance.
Because there's a relationship of incompatibility between the two.
So there will be sets of influential relationships, relations of commitments and entitlements
to certain kinds of utterances that are allowed or not allowed, depending on the normative
expectations of my community.
And there will be also practical commitments or commitments to perform certain non-communicative
behavior, for instance, by meaning that I'm committing myself to congratulate the organizers
in the appropriate social context, if I have the chance, that's something that I'm committing
myself to by meaning that Cognitio 2021 is a huge success.
And so we arrive to the idea that the linguistic content of an utterance, for instance, Cognitio
2021 is a huge success, will be determined by the normative, inferential role of this
expression.
There's a set of commitments and entitlements that I'm undertaking by producing this utterance.
And these normative statuses, these commitments and entitlements will depend on the normative
expectations of the members of my community who attempt to regulate my linguistic behavior
so as to make it more predictable.
Okay, so now we get to the conclusion.
I've argued that I think active inference can show us how normative attitudes can emerge
in communities in social context by saying that agents that attempt to minimize their
free energy in social context will attempt to regular each other's behavior so as to
make it more regular and so more predictable.
So there will be normative attitudes that emerge in social context naturally from the
active inference perspective.
But if we have a community where there are cooperative, communicative practices already
developed, such as suggested by our ecological account of communication, well, there will
be normative expectations concerning the communicative behavior of the members of the community.
And these normative expectations will institute normative statuses concerning what a speaker
is committed and entitled to.
So what are the kind of linguistic moves that are allowed and not allowed for a given speaker?
And the idea is that according to normative inferentialism, these normative statuses,
so these commitments, these entitlements that we undertake by our linguistic behavior
just are what is the linguistic meaning of our expressions is.
So we have to identify the normative statuses with the meaning of the expression that we
are using.
And so finally, what I'm trying to show is that if we have the active inference framework
and the account of social normativity that I think we can derive from it, if we combine
this with an account of cooperative communication, such as the one developed by Dr. Poirier and
me in our ecological account, then if we do that, we can have the basic tools to account
for what random calls the fanciest sort of intentionality.
So that's my talk.
Thank you very much for listening to me.
And I hope that you will have a lot of questions and commentaries that we can discuss.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Remy.
Marco.
Thank you.
I'm glad you asked for lots of questions and commentary because I, well, partly because
I'm not a philosopher, so I find it very difficult to follow, but also have some general questions,
which I would love to hear from Mo and others.
So first of all, I think it's important to know that beliefs in this literature, it's
not necessarily content, right?
It's the most general deflationary notion of beliefs.
So it doesn't really stand in tension when you made a point about that these beliefs
about social norms aren't contentful, they are already not contentful, right?
Also I have some issues with the discrete strict nature of normativity, like odds or
odd not, right?
And I think that is something that is just strictly incompatible with active inputs.
And I think one thing that might be useful is just to see normativity as a kind of fitness
landscape to the degree to which it is shaped by socially relevant factors.
And I think there you can have a more relaxed but still non-trivial notion of normativity
that connects language and social practice because then communication as such becomes
a way to shape your own and each other's landscapes with respect to social weights of normativity
or fitness.
So one other thing that I would love to hear from you and others is, it connects to the
whole problem with odd and odd not, is the room for opens.
Because social normativity is that you should do this, you should not, I think that it's
just not ecologically realistic given the actual nature of social interaction, right?
And I think we should take into account a certain expectation of where is there a freedom
from the social norms, right?
Because when you have this belief that literally every single aspect of your behavior should
be subject to these evaluations of social normativity, I think that's just undueable and that's what
creates anxiety and an experience of oppression.
And so rather we should also consider, it's kind of interesting to connect it to Shannon
because the kind of notion of improvisation where behavior is not simply to enforce or
predict these social norms, but it's actually also an exploration.
So when one behaves in any formal way, what is the experience of that behavior as perceived?
And that can help shape one's personal sense of normativity, which is I guess not social
