normativity, but personal valence, and that in turn can be communicated.
And then you get what in psychology or group psychology is called norm setting, right?
So I think norm setting is something that must be included in this kind of work.
If you want to talk about normativity in a more free and open sense that I think is
necessary to make compatible with active influence, especially because there's these
metanorms, right?
So for example, in this community, I would say that one metanorm is we're here to help
each other learn and be ourselves and be authentic and be included.
And that is something that connects not to a belief about particular behaviors, but a
belief about authentic being or modes of being, right?
And I think that is why communication should be seen as not normative in itself, but acting
upon the normativity as such.
And finally, again, because you want a lot of things, and I will give time for other
people as well, luckily it's the last call, but so I have a lot of issue when people
say that it's all about making each other more predictable, because I think there's
different degrees of weight to things being predictable, but I don't care about the predictability
of whether you use your left hand or right hand for such and such, right?
And so it's rather about a meta predictability about like what I said earlier, like what
is the domain in which things need to be predictable.
And so you could see that the behaviors and the communication are not simply about making
each other predictable, but more general, as I think is noted in some of the literature
that you also referenced, is simply about joint active inference.
And it's very dynamic, right?
So you communicate and you behave such that your personal reduction of expected free energy
and each other's reduction is calibrated or synergistic or compatible with each other.
And it's that dynamic interplay of getting that equilibration, which I think is exactly
the core of social normativity, rather than simply making each other predictable.
So yeah, so those are my random thoughts, and I would love to hear you and other people's
thoughts.
Thank you for your interesting thoughts.
Thank you very much for your question, that those are really good questions.
I think I start with your last point.
So you said that, yeah, communicative interaction is more about, for instance, coordinating
interaction, joint activity than normativity itself.
And I could not agree more.
I think that communication first and foremost is for coordinating joint activity.
But I think that there's a layer of normativity that comes over that and that regulates this
linguistic behavior.
And you said some behavior, it will be relevant to normatively constrain it, and some not,
for instance, using your left or right, and there's not a norm, important norm, relevant
to that.
And even with that, it's not clear because there's here a norm to use more your right
and in traditional societies.
But yeah, I think that linguistic behavior is the kind of thing that is really useful
to regulate normatively because it allows really a better coordination in the joint
action that we're performing.
If we know what some people are committed to, what we can expect from this person, it's
more really easily allowed the coordination, I think, in the interaction.
But OK, so that's the last point.
For your first point, Visavi, the notion of belief, I think you're right.
Beliefs in active inference must not be interpreted as being psychologically contentful.
And I agree.
And I think that would be a mistake to think that active inference entails the kind of
content that is, for instance, the content of our psychological states.
And that's exactly what I'm trying to say is that beliefs are not the kind of beliefs
that correspond to our folk psychological concepts of beliefs, intentions, and such.
And so that's really, I'm really with you on that.
And I think that, yeah, the belief, the psychological beliefs, such as the propositional attitudes,
emerge from the normative practices that I've tried to describe in this paper.
And the last point, I think, that you might wish was in the middle of intervention,
was a really good point, was the notion that there's an appearance of really discreteness
in the account of normativity that I'm giving, which does not seem to be compatible with
active inference.
I think that you're right.
And that's something I'm kind of struggling with, because what I'm trying to do is to connect
literatures which do not easily talk to each other.
So there's the traditional literature on linguistic normativity in philosophy of language, which
I'm trying to translate in active inference terms, and that's not really easy to do.
So I think that the appearance of discreteness is really an artifact of the philosophical
literature, that I must do a better work of translating it in continuous terms of active
inference.
So that's a great point.
That's something I'm working on.
So that's not a property of how I conceive of normativity.
That's more of a property of the way the questions are framed in the philosophical discussion.
And I think I must do a better work of transcribing it in a way that is more non-discreet, as
you said.
But to be normative here, to even say that you want to translate the discreteness, isn't
that also a thing that should be normatively evaluated?
The question is, do you agree with that discreet nature as it is in the traditional philosophical
literature?
Because if you do not agree, why would you translate it as such?
Because according to that slide, which I find a bit difficult to understand, but it implies
that if you would translate it, you must be committed to the truth of that translation.
Yeah, I think that there are really important insights in the physical literature on meaning
which are not understood or recognized in the active inference literature.
And that's what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to build kind of a bridge to recognize these kinds of insights.
And yeah, that's the idea I'm going for.
And I think that I could do a better job of translating these thesis on the normativity
of meaning in ways that are more compatible with the spirit of the active inference framework,
maybe.
Okay.
Bob, this is interesting.
Thank you very much for engaging with me.
Thank you.
Hello, Amy.
Can you hear me well?
Yes.
Okay.
So, actually, you have already answered my first question, so it was on why is normativity
before a pragmatic purpose, which apparently it is not?
The second question is more of a question.
Sorry.
I didn't quite understand your first question.
Sorry.
Never mind.
It's...
I was puzzled that you put normativity before a pragmatic purpose.
And when Marco asked a question, it was clear that you do not, in fact, you just are interested
in the normative dimension of language.
Is that correct?
Yes.
Okay.
The pragmatic function of language, for me, is really primary.
And so the account of communication that we've developed with Pierre Poirier is quintessentially,
so to say, a pragmatic account of communication.
And the idea is that the normativity is kind of...
Line with the district.
Yes.
Yes.
The normative dimension is kind of something that adds up on the top of these pragmatic
practices.
Yeah.
So now is the second question.
Do you think that normativity exists in virtue of structural constraints in the sociocultural
field to the agents' activity that are norms that will be causally efficient?
Or do you think that's only specific agents' expectation and the way they're organized
with regard to each other is causally efficient?
Yeah.
That's a good question.
Do you do allism, or do you do individually complex methodologies called individualism?
Yeah.
That's the question.
Does the norm are individually instantiated in the individual, or is it something more
like distributed on the community?
That's your question, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
Can you repeat?
Your question is, are the norms individually instantiated in the individuals, or is it
something more that supervins on a community and cannot be reduced to individual psychological
states of the members of the community?
Is that your question?
I'm not sure.
I understand the term subven as you do, so I will rephrase.
The question is, do norms exist as causally efficient things?
I think norms, yeah, that's a good question.
I think norms, I'm not really, I don't have a set position on the ontology of social facts
and that kind of thing, so can we say that norms exist, emerge, and do not, how do they
relate to the individual attitudes of the members of the community?
I'm not exactly sure what position I want to take on this, and I think that what is
causally efficient is the expectations of the members of the community, and these expectations
as has been described by Maxwell and others can be conceived as distributed in the environment,
in the structure of the ecological niche.
So I don't think that we have to say that they depend, for instance, on the individual
attitudes of individual members, so they can be in a way distributed, but I'm not exactly
sure on how I want to describe the ontological status of these distributed expectations, but
I don't know if that answers your question.
Well, that does not, but that's clear that you do not, so it's good.
Sorry.
I know it's good that you explain what are your commitments, even if they are known in
the specific case.
So I don't think anyone else will ask questions, so we just went out a special case, which
is the case of laws, where you have kind of a book in which the normativity is written,
and you have to refer to the book wherever you are, and this will be a case where you,
that kind of commits you to a holistic understanding, and I'm not sure how other kinds of norms
will stand in this holistic versus new holistic.
I'm not quite sure to understand, can you rephrase your question, sorry, again?
If you have a book that says what the norms are, and you have to refer to the book and
you have to follow the rules that are in the book, then with regard to a given set of norms,
structure, and linguistic expectations that define that, in which the book is embedded,
this book is specifically causally efficient.
So if you look at the big religions, like monophysic religions, or all of the bookaries
are actually, or even any policy that is not religious, but has a clear state of laws that
are state-enacted, and that are enacted in virtue of all of the jurists and military
people and whoever enforce norms, reading the fucking book and trying to apply it, then
you have a causal power that is embedded in the specific internal structure of the book,
and then you have allism, you are committed to consider a book a causally efficient thing.
In all of the other cases, I don't know.
This is my time to say.
Okay, but norms can be causally, if you see that norms are embedded in normative expectations,
and that, for instance, a norm can lead to the sanction of somebody that deviates from
the norm, and that leads to the person learning to follow the norm, in that way the norm is
causally, the norm is causally efficacious, if we see that the norm is, depends on the normative
expectations which leads to the enforcement of a behavior.
So would that count as something that you would call causally efficacious?
So everyone agrees on the fact that collective behavior is a very personal individual behavior.
This is not an issue.
The question is, can we accept a collective level of causation, holism, to be self-standing
explanations?
What I'm pointing out is that in the specific case where you have a book that says what is
normatively accepted, then you have this that is verified, because any change in the
properties of a book itself, you're notwithstanding whoever reads it, will have consequences where
if you have, I don't know, more informal patriarchal norms, you have to change individual
agents' mental states to affect how the norm is enacted.
I would still commit to a holist, I'm saying this in the case, but it's contentious.
