yet. Okay. It's a, thank you for asking. It's a question of, are you part of the interoperable
institution friendly discussion? And that's the discussion which we ultimately have to break
into. But that's what I'm trying to get at is, how do we, how does Eric Weinstein become the
president of the United States? I shouldn't become the president of the United States. Not
interested. Thank you very much for asking. Okay. Get into a leadership position where,
I guess I don't know what that means, but where you can inspire millions of people
to inspire the sense of community, inspire the kind of actions required to overcome hardship,
the kind of hardship that we may be experiencing, to inspire people to work hard and face the
difficult hard facts of the realities we're living through, all those kinds of things
that you're talking about. That leader, you know, can that leader emerge from the current
institutions? Or alternatively, can it also emerge from the outside? I guess that's what I
was asking. So my belief is, is that this is the last hurrah for the elderly centerist kleptocrats.
Can you define each of those terms? Okay. Elderly. I mean, people who were born at least a year
before I was, that's a joke you can laugh. No, because I'm born at the cusp of the Gen X boomer
divide. Centerist, they're pretending, you know, there are two parties, Democrat and Republican
party in the United States. I think it's easier to think of the mainstream of both of them as part
of an aggregate party that I sometimes call the looting party, which gets us to kleptocracy,
which is ruled by thieves. And the great temptation has been to treat the US like a trough. And you
just have to get yours because it's not like we're doing anything productive. So everybody's
sort of looting the family mansion and somebody stole the silver and somebody's cutting the
pictures out of the frames. You know, roughly speaking, we're watching our elders live it up
in a way that doesn't make sense to the rest of us. Okay. So if it's the last hurrah,
this is the time for leaders to step up. We're not ready yet. We're not ready.
I just disagree with that. I call out, you know, the head of the CDC should resign.
Should resign. The Surgeon General should resign. Trump should resign. Pelosi should resign.
DeBlasio should resign. But they're not going to resign. I understand that. So that's why,
so we'll wait. No, but that's not how revolutions work. You don't wait for people to resign.
You step up and inspire the alternative. Do you remember the Russian revolution of 1907?
It's before my time. But there wasn't a Russian revolution of 1907.
So you're thinking we're in 1907, not 1907. I'm saying we're too early.
But we got this, you know, Spanish flu came in 17, 18. So I would argue that
there's a lot of parallels there. Or there were one.
I think it's not time yet. Like John Prine, the songwriter just died of COVID.
That was a pretty big. Really? Yeah.
By the way, yes, of course, every time we do this, we discover our mutual appreciation of
obscure, brilliant, witty songwriter. Well, he's really, he's really quite good, right?
He's, he's really good. Yeah. He died.
My understanding is that he passed recently due to complications of corona.
So we haven't had large enough, enough large, large enough shocking deaths yet,
picturesque deaths, deaths of a family that couldn't get treatment.
There are stories that will come and break our hearts.
And we have not had enough of those. The visuals haven't come in.
But I think they're coming. Well, we'll find out.
But that you got to, you have to be there. He has to be there when they come. I mean,
yet. But we didn't get the visual, for example, of falling man from 9-11.
Right.
So the outside world did, but Americans were not,
it was thought that we would be too delicate. So just the way you remember
Pulitzer Prize-winning photographs from the Vietnam era, you don't easily remember
the photographs from all sorts of things that have happened since because something
changed in our media. We are in sense that we cannot feel or experience our own lives
and the tragedy that would animate us to action.
Yeah. But I think there, again, I think there's going to be that suffering that's going to build
and build in terms of businesses, mom-and-pop shops that close.
And I think for myself, I think often that I'm being weak and I feel like I should be doing
something. I should be becoming a leader on a small scale.
You can't. This is not World War II and this is not Soviet Russia.
Why not? Why not?
Because our internal programming, the malware that sits between our ears is
much different than the propagandized malware of the Soviet era. I mean, people were
both very indoctrinated and also knew that some level it was BS. They had a double mind.
I don't know. There must be a great word in Russian for being able to think
both of those things simultaneously. You don't think people are actually
sick of the partisanship, sick of incompetence? Yeah, but I called for revolt the other day
on Joe Rogan. People found it quixotic. Well, because I think you're not,
I think revolt is different. I think as like... Okay, I'm really angry. I'm furious. I cannot
stand that this is my country at the moment. I'm embarrassed. So let's build a better one.
Yeah. That's the... I'm in.
Okay, so let's take over a few universities. Let's start running a different experiment
at some of our better universities. When I did this experiment, I said,
if this were 40 years ago, the median age I believe of a university president was 51,
that would have the person in Gen X and we'd have a bunch of millennial presidents,
a bunch of... More than half Gen X, it's almost 100% baby boom at this moment.
And how did that happen? We can get into how they changed retirement,
but this generation above us does not feel... Or even the older generation,
silent generation. I had Roger Penrose on my program.
Thank you. I really appreciate that. And I asked him a question that was very
important to me. I said, look, you're in your late 80s. Is there anyone you could point to
as a successor that we should be watching? We can get excited. I said, here's an opportunity
to pass the baton. He said, well, let me hold off on that. I was like, oh, is it ever the right
moment to point to somebody younger than you to keep your flame alive after you're gone?
And also, I don't know whether... I'm just going to admit to this. People treat me like I'm crazy
for caring about the world after I'm dead or wanting to be remembered after you're gone.
Like, well, what does it matter to you? You're gone. It's this deeply secular,
somatic perspective on everything where we don't... You know that phrase as time goes by?
He says, it's still the same old story, a fight for love and glory, a case of duet.
I don't think people imagined then that there wouldn't be a story about fighting for love
and glory. And we are so out of practice about fighting rivals for love and fighting for glory
in something bigger than yourself. But the hunger is there.
Well, that was the point then, right? The whole idea is that Rick was...
He was like Han Solo of his time. He's just like, I stick my neck out for nobody. It's like, oh,
come on, Rick, you're just pretending you actually have a big soul, right? And so,
at some level, that's the question. Do we have a big soul or is it just all bullshit?
See, I think there's huge Manhattan project style projects, whether you talk about physical
infrastructure or going to Mars, the SpaceX, NASA efforts or huge scientific efforts.
Well, we need to get back into the institutions and we need to remove the weak leadership,
that we have weak leaders and the weak leaders need to be removed and they need to seat people
more dangerous than the people who are currently sitting in a lot of those chairs.
Or build new institutions. Good luck.
Well, so one of the nice things from the internet is, for example, somebody like you
can have a bigger voice than almost anybody at the particular institutions we're talking about.
That's true. But the thing is, I might say something. You can count on the fact that the
provost at Princeton isn't going to say anything.
What do you mean? To afraid?
If that person were to give an interview, how are things going in research at Princeton?
Well, I'm hesitant to say it, but they're perhaps as good as they've ever been and I think they're
going to get better. Oh, is that right? All fields? Yep. I don't see a weak one. It's just like,
okay, great. Who are you and what are you even saying? We're just used to total nonsense 24-7.
What do you think might be a beautiful thing that comes out of this? Is there a hope,
like a little inkling, little fire of hope you have about our time right now?
Yeah, I think one thing is coming to understand that the freaks, weirdos, mutants, and other
nerduels, sometimes referred to as grifters. I like that one, grifters and gadflies,
were very often the earliest people on the coronavirus. That's a really interesting question.
Why was that? And it seems to be that they had already paid such a social price
that they weren't going to be beaten up by being told, oh my god, you're xenophobic.
You just hate China or, wow, you sound like a conspiracy theorist.
So if you'd already paid those prices, you were free to think about this and everyone in an
institutional framework was terrified that they didn't want to be seen as the alarmist,
the chicken little, and so that's why you have this confidence where De Blasio says,
you know, get on with your lives, get back in there and celebrate Chinese New Year in Chinatown
despite coronavirus. It's like, okay, really? So you just always thought everything would
automatically be okay if you adopted that posture. So you think this time reveals the
weakness of our institutions and reveals the strength of our gadflies and the weirdos and the-
No, not necessarily the strength, but the value of freedom, like a different way of saying it would
be, wow, even your gadflies and your grifters were able to beat your institutional folks because
your institutional folks were playing with a giant mental handicap. So just imagine, like,
we were in the story of Harrison Bergeron by Vonnegut and our smartest people were all subjected
to distracting noises every seven seconds. Well, they would be functionally much dumber
because they couldn't continue a thought through all the disturbance. So in some sense,
that's a little bit like what belonging to an institution is, is that if you have to make a
public statement, of course, the surgeon general is going to be the worst because they're just
playing with too much of a handicap. There are too many institutional players who are like,
don't screw us up. And so the person has to say something wrong. We're going to back propagate
a falsehood. And this is very interesting. Some of my socially oriented friends say,
Eric, I don't understand what you're on about. Of course masks work, but you know what they're
trying to do. They're trying to get us not to buy up the masks for the doctors. And I think,
okay, so you imagine that we can just create scientific fiction at will so that you can run
whatever social program you want. This is what I, you know, my point is get out of my lab,
get out of the lab. You don't belong in the lab. You're not meant for the lab. You're
constitutionally incapable of being around the lab. You need to leave the lab.
You think the CEC and WHO knew that masks work and we're trying to sort of imagine that people
are kind of stupid and they would buy masks in excess if they were told that masks work.
Is that like, because this does seem to be a particularly clear example of mistakes made.
You're asking me this question? Yeah.
No, you're not. What do you think, Lex?
Well, I actually probably disagree with you a little bit.
Great. Let's do it.
I think it's not so easy to be honest with the populace
when the danger of panic is always around the corner. I think the kind of honesty you exhibit
appeals to a certain class of brave intellectual minds that appeals to me, but I don't know
from the perspective of WHO, I don't know if it's so obvious that they should
be honest 100% of the time with people.
I'm not saying you should be perfectly transparent and 100% honest. I'm saying that the quality of
your lies has to be very high and it has to be public spirited. There's a big difference between,
so I'm not a child about this. I'm not saying that when you're at war, for example, you turn over
all of your plans to the enemy because it's important that you're transparent with 360 degree
visibility, far from it. What I'm saying is something has been forgotten and I forgot who it
was who told it to me, but it was a fellow graduate student in the Harvard Math Department.
And he said, you know, I learned one thing being out in the workforce because he was one of the
few people who had had a work life in the department as a graduate. And he said, you can be friends
with your boss, but if you're going to be friends with your boss, you have to be doing a good job
at work. And there's an analog here, which is if you're going to be reasonably honest with the
population, you have to be doing a good job at work as the surgeon general or as the head of the
CDC. So if you're doing a terrible job, you're supposed to resign. And then the next person is
supposed to say, look, I'm not going to lie to you. I inherited the situation. It was in a bit of
disarray. But I had several requirements before I agreed to step in and take the job because I
needed to know I could turn it around. I needed to know that I had clear lines of authority.
I needed to know that I had the resources available in order to rectify the problem.
And I needed to know that I had the ability and the freedom to level with the American people
directly as I saw fit. All of my wishes were granted. And that's why I'm happy here on Monday
morning. I've got my sleeves rolled up. Boy, do we got a lot to do. So please come back in two weeks
and then ask me how I'm doing then. And I hope to have something to show you. That's how you do it.
So why is that excellence and basic competence missing?
The big net. You see, you come from multiple traditions where it was very important to remember
things. The Soviet tradition made sure that you remembered the sacrifices that came in that war.
And the Jewish tradition, we're doing this on Passover, right? Okay. Well, every year we tell
one simple story. Well, why can't it be different every year? Maybe we can have a rotating series
of seven stories because it's the one story that you need. It's like, you know, you work with the
men in black group, right? And it's the last suit that you'll ever need. This is the last story
that you ever need. Don't think I fell for your neuralyzer last time. In any event,
we tell one story because it's the get out of dodge story. There's a time when you need to not
wait for the bread to rise. And that's the thing, which is even if you live through a great nap,
you deserve to know what it feels like to have to leave everything that has become comfortable
and unworkable. It's sad that you need that tragedy, I imagine, to have the tradition of
remembering. It's sad to think that because things have been nice and comfortable,
means that we can't have great competent leaders, which is kind of the implied statement. Like,
can we have great leaders who take big risks, who inspire hard work,
who deal with difficult truth, even though things have been comfortable?
Well, we know what those people sound like. I mean, you know, if, for example,
Jaco Willink suddenly threw his hat into the ring, everyone would say, okay,
right, party's over. It's time to get up at 4.30 and really work hard. And we've got to get back
into fighting shape. And yeah, but Jaco is a very special, I think that whole group of people
by profession put themselves in the way of, into hardship on a daily basis. And he's not,
I don't know, but he's probably not going to be, well, could Jaco be president?
Okay, but it doesn't have to be Jaco, right? Like, in other words, if it was Kai Lenny or if it was
Alex Honnold from Rock Climbing. Right. But they're just serious people.
They're serious people who can't afford your BS. Yeah, but why do we have serious people that do
rock climbing and don't have serious people who lead the nation? Because that was a, those skills
needed in rock climbing are not good during the big nap. And at the tail end of the big nap,
they would get you fired. But I don't, don't you think there's a fundamental part of human nature
