How long has string theory gone on for and how long have I been patient?
Okay, so you're talking about...
There's a limit to patience.
You're talking about like 36 years of modern nonsense in string theory.
So you can do like eight to 10 years, but not more.
I can do 40 minutes.
This is 36 years.
Well, you've done that over two hours already.
No, but I appreciate it.
It's been 36 years of nonsense since the anomaly cancellation in string theory.
It's like, what are you talking about about patience?
I mean, Lex, you're not even acting like yourself.
Well, you're trying to stay in the system.
I'm not trying to see if perhaps...
So my hope is that the system just has a few assholes in it, which you highlight.
And the fundamentals of the system aren't broken.
Because if the fundamentals of the systems are broken,
then I just don't see a way for MIT to succeed.
Like, I don't see how young people take over MIT.
I don't see how...
By inspiring us.
You know, the great part about being at MIT,
like when you saw the genius in these pranks, the heart, the irreverence,
it's like, we were talking about Tom Lehrer the last time.
Tom Lehrer was as naughty as the day is long.
Agreed?
Agreed.
Was he also a genius?
Was he well-spoken?
Was he highly cultured?
He was so talented, so intellectual,
that he could just make fart jokes morning, noon, and night.
Well, in part, the right to make fart jokes,
the right to, for example, put a functioning phone booth
that was ringing on top of the great dome at MIT has to do with,
we are such bad asses that we can actually do this stuff.
Well, don't tell me about it anymore.
Go break the law.
Go break the law in a way that inspires us
and makes us not want to prosecute you.
Make, break the law in a way that lets us know
that you're calling us out on our bullshit,
that you're filled with love,
and that our technical talent has not gone to sleep,
it's not incapable, you know?
And if the idea is that you're going to dig a moat around the university
and fill it with tiger sharks, that's awesome,
because I don't know how you're going to do it.
But if you actually manage to do that,
I'm not going to prosecute you under a reckless endangerment.
That's beautifully put.
I hope those, first of all, they'll listen.
I hope young people at MIT will take over in this kind of way.
In the introduction to your podcast episode on Jeffrey Epstein,
you give to me a really moving story,
but unfortunately for me too brief,
about your experience with a therapist
and the lasting terror that permeated your mind.
Can you go there?
Can you tell?
No, thanks.
I mean, I appreciate what you're saying.
I said it obliquely.
I said enough.
There are bad people who cross our paths,
and the current vogue is to say, oh, I'm a survivor.
I'm a victim.
I can do anything I want.
This is a broken person.
And I don't know why I was sent to a broken person as a kid.
And to be honest with you, I also felt like in that story,
I say that I was able to say no.
And this was like the entire weight of authority.
And he was misusing his position.
And I was also able to say no.
What I couldn't say no to was having him re-inflicted in my life.
All right, so you were sent back a second time.
I tried to complain about what had happened.
And I tried to do it in a way that did not immediately
cause horrific consequences to both this person and myself,
because we don't have the tools to deal with sexual misbehavior.
We have nuclear weapons.
We don't have any way of saying this is probably not a good place
or a role for you at this moment as an authority figure.
And something needs to be worked on.
So in general, when we see somebody who is misbehaving in that way,
our immediate instinct is to treat the person as Satan.
And we understand why we don't want our children to be at risk.
Now, I personally believe that I fell down on the job
and did not call out the Jeffrey Epstein thing early enough
because I was terrified of what Jeffrey Epstein represents.
And this recapitulated the old terror trying to tell the world
this therapist is out of control.
And when I said that, the world responded by saying,
well, you have two appointments booked and you have to go for the second one.
So I got reinflicted into this office on this person who was now convinced
that I was about to tear down his career and his reputation.
It might have been on the verge of suicide for all I know.
I don't know.
But he was very, very angry.
And he was furious with me that I had breached a sacred confidence of his office.
What kind of ripple effects has that had to the rest of your life,
the absurdity and the cruelty of that?
I mean, there's no sense to it.
Well, see, this is the thing people don't really grasp, I think.
There's an academic who I got to know many years ago
named Jennifer Fried, who has a theory of betrayal,
which she calls institutional betrayal.
And her gambit is, is that when you are betrayed by an institution,
that is sort of like a fiduciary or a parental obligation to take care of you,
that you find yourself in a far different situation with respect to trauma
than if you were betrayed by somebody who's a peer.
And so I think that in my situation, I kind of repeat a particular dynamic with authority.
I come in not following all the rules, trying to do some things,
not trying to do others, blah, blah, blah.
And then I get into a weird relationship with authority.
And so I have more experience with what I would call institutional betrayal.
Now, the funny part about it is that when you don't have masks or PPE in a influenza-like pandemic,
and you're missing ICU beds and ventilators, that is ubiquitous institutional betrayal.
So I believe that in a weird way, I was very early.
The idea of, and this is like the really hard concept,
pervasive or otherwise universal institutional betrayal, where all of the institutions,
you can count on any hospital to not charge you properly for what their services are.
You can count on no pharmaceutical company to produce the drug that will be maximally beneficial
to the people who take it.
You know that your financial professionals are not simply working in your best interest.
And that issue had to do with the way in which growth left our system.
So I think that the weird thing is, is that this first institutional betrayal by a therapist
left me very open to the idea of, okay, well, maybe the schools are bad,
maybe the hospitals are bad, maybe the drug companies are bad, maybe our food is off.
Maybe our journalists are not serving journalistic ends.
And that was what allowed me to sort of go all the distance and say,
huh, I wonder if our problem is that something is causing all of our sense making institutions
to be off. That was the big insight and that tying that to a single etiology.
What if it's just about growth? They were all built on growth.
And now we've promoted people who are capable of keeping quiet that their institutions aren't
working. So we've the privileged, silent aristocracy, the people who can be counted upon,
not to mention a fire when a raging fire is tearing through a building.
But nevertheless, it's how big of a psychological burden is that?
It's huge. It's terrible. It's crushing. It's very,
it's very comforting to be the parental, I mean, I don't know, I treasure,
I mean, we were just talking about MIT, we can, I can intellectualize and agree with everything
you're saying, but there's a comfort, a warm blanket of being within the institution.
And up until Aaron Schwartz, let's say. In other words, now, if I look at the provost and the
president as mommy and daddy, you did what to my big brother? You did what to our family?
You sold us out in which way? What secrets left for China? You hired which workforce?
You did what to my wages? You took this portion of my grant for what purpose?
You just stole my retirement through a fringe rate. What did you do?
But can you still, I mean, the thing is about this view you have, is it often turns out to be
sadly correct? Well, this is the thing. And but let me just, in this silly hopeful thing,
do you still have hope in institutions? Can you within your, psychologically?
I'm referring not intellectually, because you have to carry this burden. Can you still have a hope
like within you, Jake? When you sit at home alone and as opposed to seeing the darkness
within these institutions, seeing a hope. Well, but this is the thing I want to confront,
not for the purpose of a dust up. I believe, for example, if you've heard episode 19,
that the best outcome is for Carol Greider to come forward, as we discussed in episode 19.
Would your brother, Brett, want to start and say, you know what? I screwed up.
He did call, he did suggest the experiment. I didn't understand that it was his theory
that was producing it. Maybe I was slow to grasp it. But my bad, and I don't want to pay for this
bad choice on my part, let's say, for the rest of my career, I want to own up and I want to help
make sure that we do what's right with what's left. And that's one little case within the
institution that you would like to see made? I would like to see MIT very clearly come out and
say, you know, Margot O'Toole was right when she said David Baltimore's lab here
produced some stuff that was not reproducible with Teresa Minishikari's research. I want to see
the courageous people, I would like to see the Aaron Schwartz wing of the computer science
department. Yeah, let's think about it. Wouldn't that be great if we said, you know, an injustice
was done and we're going to write that wrong just as if this was Alan Turing?
Which I don't think they've righted that wrong. Well, then let's have the Turing
Schwartz wing. The Turing Schwartz, they're starting a new college of computing. It wouldn't
be wonderful to call it the Turing Schwartz. I would like to have the Madam Wu wing of the
physics department. And I'd love to have the Emmy Nerder statue in front of the math department.
I mean, like, you want to get excited about actual diversity and inclusion? Yeah. Well,
let's go with our absolute best people who never got theirs because there is structural bigotry.
You know, but if we don't actually start celebrating the beautiful stuff that we're
capable of when we're handed heroes and we fumble them into the trash, what the hell? I mean,
Lex, this is such nonsense. We just pulling our head out. You know, that on everyone's
seekum should be tattooed. If you can read this, you're too close.
Beautifully put, and I'm a dreamer just like you. So I don't see as much of the darkness
genetically or due to my life experience, but I do share the hope from IT institution that
we care a lot about. You both do. Yeah. And Harvard institution, I don't give a damn about,
but you do. I love Harvard. I'm just kidding. I love Harvard, but Harvard and I have a very
difficult relationship. And part of what, you know, when you love a family that isn't working,
I don't want to trash. I didn't bring up the name of the president of MIT during the
Aaron Schwartz period. It's not vengeance. I want the rot cleared out. I don't need to go
after human beings. Yeah. Just like you said, with the, with the disc formulation,
the individual human beings don't necessarily carry them.
It's those chairs that are so powerful that in which they sit. It's the chairs, not the humans.
It's not the humans. Without naming names, can you tell the story of your struggle
during your time at Harvard? Maybe in a way that tells the bigger story of the struggle of young
bright minds that are trying to come up with big, bold ideas within the institutions that we're
talking about. You can start. I mean, in part, it starts with coffee with a couple of Croatians
in the math department at MIT. And we used to talk about music and dance and math and physics
and love and all this kind of stuff as Eastern Europeans love to. And I ate it up. And my friend
Gordana, who was an instructor in the MIT math department when I was a graduate student at Harvard,
said to me, and I'm probably going to do a bad version of her accent. Here we go.
Will I see you tomorrow at the secret seminar? And I said, what secret seminar?
Eric, don't joke. I said, I'm not used to this style of humor, Gordana. Eric,
the secret seminar that your advisor is running. I said, what are you talking about?
You know, your advisor is running a secret seminar on this aspect. I think it was like
the churned Simon's invariant. Not sure what the topic was again, but she gave me the room
