that desires to excel to be exceptionally good at your job? Yeah, but what is your job? I mean,
in other words, my point to you is, if you, if you're a general in a peacetime army,
and your major activity is playing war games, what if the skills needed to win war games are
very different than the skills needed to win wars? Because you know how the war games are scored,
and you've, you've done moneyball, for example, with war games, and you figured out how to win
games on paper. So then the, the advancement skill becomes divergent from the ultimate skill
that it was proxying for. Yeah, but you create, we're good as human beings to, I mean, at least
me, I can't do a big nap. So at any one moment when I finish something, a new dream pops up.
So go into Mars. What do you like to do? You like to do Brazilian jujitsu?
Well, first of all, I like to do everything. You like to play guitar? Guitar.
You do this podcast, you do theory, you're always, you're constantly taking risks and exposing yourself.
Right? Why? Because you got one of those crazy, I'm sorry to say it, you got an Eastern European
Jewish personality, which I'm still tied to. And I'm a couple generations more distant than you
are. And I've held on to that thing because it's valuable to me. You don't think there's a huge
percent of the populace, even in the United States, that's, that's that. Maybe a little bit dormant,
but. Do you know Anakha Chin from the Red Scare podcast? Did you interview her? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She was great. She was great, right? Yeah. She's fun.
She's, she's terrific. But she also has the same thing going on. And I made a joke in the liner
notes for that episode, which is somewhere on the road from Stalingrad to Forever 21,
something was lost. Like, how can Stalingrad and Forever 21 be in the same sentence? And,
you know, in part, it's that weird thing. It's like trying to remember. Even words,
like I'm in Russian and Hebrew, things like, it's like, what, Pomyat and Liskor, you know,
these words have much more potency about memory. And I don't know. I do, I think, I think there's
still a dormant populace that craves leaders on a small scale, large scale. And I hope to be that
leader on a small scale. And I think you, sir, have a role to be a leader.
You kids go ahead without me. I'm just going to, I'm going to do a little bit of weird podcast.
See, now you're, you're putting on your Joe Rogan hat. He says, I'm just a comedian. Oh,
no, I'm not. You say, I'm just. That's not that. If I say I want to lead too much,
because of the big nap, there's like a group, a chorus of automated idiots. And they're,
they're first thought is like, Oh, I knew it. It was a power grab all along. Why should you lead?
You know, just like, and so the, the idea is you're just trying to skirt around, not stepping on all
of the idiot landmines. It's like, okay. So now I'm going to hear that in my inbox for the next
three days. Okay. So lead by example, just live. No, I mean, the issue. Large platform. Look, we
should take over the institutions. There are institutions. We've got bad leadership. We should
mutiny and we should inject a 15%, 20% disagreeable, dissident, very aggressive, loner, individual,
mutant freaks, all the people that you go to see Avengers movies about, or the X-Men or whatever
it is, and stop pretending that everything good comes out of some great giant, inclusive communal
12 hour meeting. It's like, stop it. That's not how shit happens.
You recently published the video of a lecture. You gave it Oxford presenting some aspects of a
theory, theory of everything called geometric unity. So this was a work of 30, 30 plus years.
This is life's work. Let me ask you the silly old question. How do you feel as a human excited,
scared, the experience of posting it? It's funny. One of the things that you learn to feel as an
academic is the great sins you can commit in academics is to show yourself to be a non-serious
person, to show yourself to have delusions, to avoid the standard practices, which everyone
is signed up for. And it's weird because you know that those people are going to be angry.
He did what? Why would he do that? And what we're referring to, for example,
those traditions of publishing incrementally, certainly not trying to have a theory of everything,
perhaps working within the academic departments, all those things.
That's true. And so you're going outside of all of that?
Well, I mean, I was going inside of all of that. And we did not come to terms when I was inside.
And what they did was so outside to me, was so weird, so freakish. The most senior respectable
people at the most senior respectable places were functionally insane, as far as I could tell.
And again, it's like being functionally stupid if you're the head of the
CDC or something, where you're giving recommendations out that aren't based on what
you actually believe, they're based on what you think you have to be doing.
Well, in some sense, I think that that's a lot of how I saw the math and physics world as...
The physics world was really crazy, and the math world was considerably less crazy,
just very strict and kind of dogmatic.
We'll psychoanalyze those folks, but I really want to maybe linger on it a little bit longer
of how you feel, because this is such a special moment in your life.
Well, I really appreciate it. It's a great question. So if we can
pair off some of those other issues, it's new being able to say what the
observer is, which is my attempt to replace spacetime with something that is both closely
related to spacetime and not spacetime. So I used to carry the number 14 as a closely guarded
secret in my life, and we're 14 is really four dimensions of space and time, plus 10 extra
dimensions of rulers and protractors, or for the cool kids out there, symmetric two tensors.
So you had a geometric, a complicated, beautiful geometric view of the world that you cared with
you for a long time. Did you have friends that you colleagues...
Essentially, no.
...talked?
No. In fact, some of these stories are me coming out to my friends, and I use the
phrase coming out because I think that gays have monopolized the concept of the closet.
Many of us are in closets having nothing to do with their sexual orientation.
Yeah, I didn't really feel comfortable talking to almost anyone. So this was a closely guarded
secret, and I think that I let on in some ways that I was up to something and probably...
But it was a very weird life. I had to have a series of things that I pretended to care about
so that I could use that as the stalking horse for what I really cared about. And to your point,
I never understood this whole thing about theories of everything. If you were going to go
into something like theoretical physics, isn't that what you would normally pursue?
Wouldn't it be crazy to do something that difficult and that poorly paid if you were
going to try to do something other than figure out what this is all about?
Now, I have to reveal my cards, my weaknesses and lack and an understanding of the music of
physics and math departments. But there's an analogy here to artificial intelligence.
And often folks come in and say, okay, so there's a giant department working on,
quote unquote, artificial intelligence. But why is nobody actually working on intelligence?
Like you're all just building little toys. You're not actually trying to understand.
And that breaks a lot of people. It confuses them because like, okay, so I'm at MIT. I'm at
Stanford. I'm at Harvard. I'm here. I dreamed of being working on artificial intelligence.
Why is everybody not actually working on intelligence? And I have the same kind of
sense that that's what working on the theory of everything is, that strangely you somehow become
an outcast for even- But we know why this is, right?
Why? Well, it's because let's play with AGI, for example. I think that the idea starts off
with nobody really knows how to work on that. And so if we don't know how to work on it,
we choose instead to work on a program that is tangentially related to it. So we do a component
of a program that is related to that big question because it's felt like at least I can make progress
there. And that wasn't where I was. Where I was in, it's funny, there was this book called
Frieden Uhlenbeck and it had this weird mysterious line in the beginning of it. And I tried to get
clarification of this weird mysterious line and everyone said wrong things. And then I said,
okay, well, so I can tell that nobody's thinking properly because I just asked the entire department
and nobody has a correct interpretation of this. And so it's a little bit like you see
a crime scene photo and you have a different idea. Like there's a smoking gun and you figure,
that's actually a cigarette lighter. I don't really believe that. And then there's like a
pack of cards and you think, oh, that looks like the blunt instrument that the person was beaten
with. So you have a very different idea about how things go and very quickly you realize that
there's no one thinking about that. There's a few human sides to this and technical sides,
both of which I'd love to try to get down to. So the human side, I can tell from my perspective,
I think it was before April 1st, April Fools, maybe the day before, I forget, but I was laying
in bed in the middle of the night and somehow it popped up, you know, on my feed somewhere that
your beautiful face is speaking live and I clicked. And, you know, it's kind of weird how
the universe just brings things together in this kind of way. And all of a sudden I realized that
there's something big happening at this particular moment. It's strange, like on a day like any day.
And all of a sudden you were thinking of, you had this somber tone, like you were serious,
like you were going through some difficult decision. And it seems strange, I almost thought you were
maybe joking, but there was a serious decision being made and it was a wonderful experience
to go through with you. I really appreciate it. I mean, it was April 1st. Yeah, it was kind of
fascinating. I mean, just the whole experience and so I want to ask, I mean, thank you for letting me
be part of that kind of journey of decision making that took 30 years. But why now? Why did you think,
why did you struggle so long not to release it and decide to release it now?
While the whole world is on lockdown, on April Fool's, is it just because you like the comedy of
absurd ways that the universe comes together? I don't think so.
I think that the COVID epidemic is the end of the big nap. And I think that I actually
tried this seven years earlier in Oxford. And it was too early.
Which part was too early? Is it the platform? Because your platform is quite different now,
actually. The internet, I remember you, I read several of your brilliant answers that people
should read for the Edge questions. One of them was related to the internet. And it was the first
one. Was it the first one? Yeah. An essay called Go Virtual Young Man. Yeah. Yeah, that seemed,
that's like forever ago now. Well, that was 10 years ago. And that's exactly what I did,
is I decamped to the internet, which is where the portal lives, the portal, the portal, the portal.
Well, let's start the theme, the ominous theme music, which you can just listen to forever.
I actually started recording tiny guitar licks for the audio portion, not for the video portion.
You've kind of inspired me with bringing your guitar into the story. But keep going.
So you thought, so Oxford was like step one, you kind of, you put your foot into the water to
sample it, but it was too cold at the time. So you didn't want to step in. I was just really
disappointed. What was disappointing about that experience? It's a hard thing to talk about. It
has to do with the fact that, and I can see this, this mirrors a disappointment within myself.
There are two separate issues. One is the issue of making sure that the idea is actually heard
and explored. And the other is the question about, will I become disconnected from my work?
Because it will be ridiculed. It will be immediately improved. It will be found to be
derivative of something that occurred in some paper in 1957. When the community does not want
you to gain a voice, it's a little bit like a policeman deciding to weirdly enforce all of these
little known regulations against you and sometimes nobody else. And I think that's kind of this
weird thing where I just don't believe that we can reach the final theory necessarily within the
political economy of academics. So if you think about how academics are tortured by each other
and how they're paid and where they have freedom and where they don't, I actually weirdly think
that that system of selective pressures is going to eliminate anybody who's going to make real
progress. So that's interesting. So if you look at the story of Andrew Wiles, for example, with
Fermat's last theorem, he, as far as I understand, he pretty much isolated himself
from the world of academics in terms of the bulk of the work he did. And it, from my perspective,
is dramatic and fun to read about, but it seemed exceptionally stressful. The first step he took,
the first steps he took when actually making the work public, that seemed to me would be hell.
Yeah, but it's like so artificially dramatic. He leads up to it at a series of lectures.
He doesn't want to say it. And then he finally says it at the end, because obviously this comes
out of a body of work where, I mean, the funny part about Fermat's last theorem is it wasn't
originally thought to be a deep and meaningful problem. It was just an easy to state one that
had gone unsolved. But if you think about it, it became attached to the body of regular theory.
So he built up this body of regular theory, gets all the way up to the end, announces.
And then there's this whole drama about, okay, somebody's checking the proof. I don't understand
what's going on in line 37. And it's like, oh, is this serious? It seems a little bit more serious
than we knew. I mean, do you see parallels? Do you share the concern that your experience
might be something similar? Well, in his case, I think that if I recall correctly, his original
proof was unsalvageable. He actually came up with a second proof with a colleague, Richard Taylor.
And it was that second proof, which carried the day. So it was a little bit that he got
put under incredible pressure and then had to succeed in a new way having failed the first time,
which is like, even a weirder and stranger story. That's an incredible story in some sense.
But I mean, are you, I'm trying to get a sense of the kind of stress you're on.
I think that this is, okay, but I'm rejecting. What I don't think people understand with me
is the scale of the critique. People say, well, you must implicitly agree with this
and implicitly agree. It's like, no, try me. Ask before you decide that I am mostly in agreement
with the community about how these things should be handled or what these things mean.
Can you elaborate and also just why this criticism
matter so much here? So you seem to dislike the burden of criticism that it will choke away all
There's different kinds of criticism. There's constructive criticism and there's destructive
criticism. And what I don't like is I don't like a community that can't, first of all,
like if you take the physics community, just the way we screwed up on masks and PPE,
just the way we screwed up in the financial crisis and mortgage-backed securities,
we screwed up on string theory. Can we just forget the string theory happened or?
Sure, but then somebody should say that, right? Somebody should say, you know, it didn't work out.
Yeah. Okay, but you're asking this, like, why do you guys get to keep the prestige after
failing for 35 years? That's an interesting question. Who's the you guys? Because to me...
Whoever the profession... Look, these things, if there is a theory of everything to be had, right,
it's going to be a relatively small group of people where this will be sorted out.
Absolutely. It's not tens of thousands. It's probably hundreds at the top.
But within that community, there's the assholes. There's the... I mean, you always in this world
have people who are kind, open-minded. It's not a question about kind. It's a question about...
Okay, let's imagine, for example, that you have a story where you believe that ulcers are definitely
caused by stress. And you've never questioned it, or maybe you felt like the Japanese came out of
the blue and attacked us at Pearl Harbor, right? And now somebody introduces a new idea to you,
which is like, what if it isn't stress at all? Or what if we actually tried to make resource
star of Japan attack us somewhere in the Pacific so we could have Cassus Belli to enter the Asian
Theater? And the person's original idea is like, what? What are you even saying? You know, it's like
too crazy. Well, when Dirac in 1963 talked about the importance of beauty as a guiding principle
in physics, and he wasn't talking about the scientific method. That was crazy talk. But he
was actually making a great point. And he was using Schrodinger. And I think it was... Schrodinger
was standing in for him. And he said that if your equations don't agree with experiment, that's kind
of a minor detail. If they have true beauty in them, you should explore them because very often
the agreement with experiment is an issue of fine tuning of your model, of the instantiation.
And so it doesn't really tell you that your model is wrong. And of course, Heisenberg told
Dirac that his model was wrong because that the proton and the electron should be the same mass
if they are each other's antiparticles. And that was an irrelevant kind of silliness
rather than a real threat to the Dirac theory.
