The following is a conversation with Eric Weinstein, the second time we've spoken on this podcast.
He's a mathematician with a bold and piercing intelligence unafraid to explore the biggest
questions in the universe and shine a light on the darkest corners of our society. He is the host
of the Portal podcast, a part of which he recently released his 2013 Oxford lecture on his theory of
geometric unity that is at the center of his lifelong efforts to arrive at a theory of everything
that unifies the fundamental laws of physics. This conversation was recorded recently in the
time of the coronavirus pandemic. For everyone feeling the medical, psychological, and financial
burden of this crisis, I'm sending love your way. Stay strong. We're in this together. We'll beat
this thing. This is the Artificial Intelligence podcast. If you enjoy it, subscribe on YouTube,
review it with five stars on Apple Podcasts, support it on Patreon, or simply connect with me
on Twitter at Lex Freedman, spelled F-R-I-D-M-A-N. This show is presented by Cash App, the number
one finance app in the App Store. When you get it, use code LexPodcast. Cash App lets you send money
to friends by Bitcoin and invest in the stock market with as little as $1. Since Cash App does
fractional share trading, let me mention that the order execution algorithm that works behind the
scenes to create the abstraction of the fractional orders is an algorithmic marvel. So big props to
the Cash App engineers for solving a hard problem that in the end provides an easy interface that
takes a step up to the next layer of abstraction over the stock market, making trading more accessible
to new investors and diversification much easier. So again, if you get Cash App from the App Store
or Google Play and use code LexPodcast, you get $10 and Cash App will also donate $10 to first,
an organization that is helping to advance robotics and STEM education for young people around the
world. And now here's my conversation with Eric Weinstein. Do you see a connection between World
War II and the crisis we're living through right now? Sure. The need for collective action, reminding
ourselves of the fact that all of these abstractions, like everyone should just do exactly what he or
she wants to do for himself and leave everyone else alone, none of these abstractions work in a
global crisis. And this is just a reminder that we didn't somehow put all that behind us.
When I hear stories about my grandfather, who was in the Army, and so the Soviet Union where
most people die when you're in the Army, there's a brotherhood that happens. There's a love that
happens. Do you think that's something we're going to see here?
Well, we're not there. I mean, what the Soviet Union went through. I mean,
the enormity of the war on the Russian doorstep, this is different. What we're going through now
is not... We can't talk about Stalingrad and COVID in the same breath yet. We're not ready.
And the sense of the great patriotic war and the way in which I was very moved by the
Soviet custom of newlyweds going and visiting war memorials on their wedding day, like the
happiest day of your life, you have to say, thank you to the people who made it possible.
We're not there. We're just restarting history. I've called this... On the
Rogan program, I called it the Great Knapp, the 75 years with very little by historical
standards in terms of really profound disruption. When you call it the Great Knapp,
meaning lack of deep global tragedy? Well, lack of realized global tragedy.
So I think that the development, for example, of the hydrogen bomb was something that happened
during the Great Knapp. And that doesn't mean that people who lived during that time didn't
feel fear, didn't know anxiety, but it was to say that most of the violent potential of human
species was not realized. It was in the form of potential energy. And this is the thing that I've
sort of taken issue with with the description of Stephen Pinker's optimism, is that if you look
at the realized kinetic variables, things have been getting much better for a long time, which
is the Great Knapp. But it's not as if our fragility has not grown, our dependence on
electronic systems, our vulnerability to disruption. And so all sorts of things have gotten
much better. Other things have gotten much worse. And the destructive potential is skyrocketed.
Is tragedy the only way we wake up from the Big Knapp?
Well, no, you could also have jubilation about positive things, but it's harder
to get people's attention. Can you give an example of a big global positive thing?
Well, I think that when, for example, just historically speaking, HIV went from being
a death sentence to something that people could live with for a very long period of time,
it would be great if that had happened on a Wednesday, right? Like all at once,
you knew that things had changed. And so the bleed in somewhat kills the sort of the Wednesday
effect where it all happens on a particular day at a particular moment. I think if you look at
the stock market here, there's a very clear moment where you can see that the market absorbs the idea
of the coronavirus. I think that with respect to positives, the moon landing was the best example
of a positive that happened at a particular time or recapitulating the Soviet American
link up in terms of Skylab and Soyuz, right? Like that was a huge moment when you actually
had these two nations connecting in orbit. And so, yeah, there are great moments where
something beautiful and wonderful and amazing happens, you know, but it's just, they're fewer.
That's why as much as I can't imagine proposing to somebody at a sporting event,
when you have like 30,000 people waiting and, you know, she says, yes, it's pretty exciting.
So I think that we shouldn't discount that. So how bad do you think it's going to get
in terms of the global suffering that we're going to experience with this crisis?
I can't figure this one out. I'm just not smart enough. Something is going weirdly wrong.
They're almost like two separate storylines. In one storyline, we aren't taking things nearly
seriously enough. We see people using food packaging lids as masks who are doctors or nurses.
We hear horrible stories about people dying needlessly due to triage. And that's a very terrifying
story. On the other hand, there's this other story which says there are tons of ventilators
someplace. We've got lots of masks, but they haven't been released. We've got hospital ships
where none of the beds are being used. And it's very confusing to me that somehow these two stories
give me the feeling that they both must be true simultaneously and they can't both be true in
any kind of standard way. And I don't know whether it's just that I'm dumb, but I can't get one or
the other story to quiet down. So I think weirdly, this is much more serious than we had understood
it. And it's not nearly as serious as some people are making it out to be at the same time and that
we're not being given the tools to actually understand, oh, here's how to interpret the data.
The issue with the personal protective equipment is actually a jurisdictional battle or a question
of who pays for it rather than a question of whether it's present or absent. I don't understand
the details of it, but something is wildly off in our ability to understand where we are.
So that's policy, that's institutions. What about, do you think about the quiet suffering
of millions of people that have lost their job? Is this a temporary thing? I mean, what I'm,
my ears not to the suffering of those people who have lost their job or the 50% possibly a
small businesses that are going to go bankrupt. Do you think about that quiet suffering and how
that might arise itself? Could be not quiet too. I mean, could be a depression. This could
go from recession to depression and depression could go to armed conflict and then to war. So
it's not a very abstract causal chain that gets us to the point where we can begin with quiet
suffering and anxiety and all of these sorts of things and people losing their jobs and people
dying from stress and all sorts of things. But look, anything powerful enough to put us all indoors
in a, I mean, think about this as an incredible experiment. Imagine that you proposed, hey,
I want to do a bunch of research. Let's figure out what changes in our emissions,
emissions profiles for our carbon footprints when we're all indoors or what happens to traffic
patterns or what happens to the vulnerability of retail sales as Amazon gets stronger, you know,
et cetera, et cetera. I believe that in many of those situations, we're running an incredible
experiment and am I worried for us all? Yes. There are some bright spots, one of which is
that when you're ordered to stay indoors, people are going to feel entitled. And the usual thing
that people are going to hit when they hear that they've lost your job, you know, there's this kind
of tough love attitude that you see, particularly in the United States, like, oh, you lost your job,
poor baby. Well, go retrain, get another one. I think there's going to be a lot less appetite for
that because we've been asked to sacrifice, to risk, to act collectively. And that's the
interesting thing. What does that reawaken in us? Maybe the idea that we actually are nations and
that, you know, your fellow countrymen may start to mean something to more people, certainly mean
something to people in the military. But I wonder how many people who aren't in the military start
to think about this as like, oh, yeah, we are kind of running separate experiments and we are not
China. So you think this is kind of a period that might be studied for years to come? From my
perspective, we are a part of experiment, but I don't feel like we have access to the full data,
the full data of the experiment. We're just like little mice in a large... Does this one make sense
to you, Lex? I'm romanticizing it and I keep connecting it to World War II. So I keep connecting
to historical events and making sense of them through that way or reading The Plague by Camus.
Like almost kind of telling narratives and stories, but I'm not hearing
the suffering that people are going through because I think that's quiet. Everybody's numb
currently. They're not realizing what it means to have lost your job
and to have lost your business. There's kind of a... I'm afraid how that fear will materialize
itself once the numbness wears out. And especially if this lasts for many months,
and if it's connected to the incompetence of the CDC and the WHO and our government
and perhaps the election process, my biggest fear is that the elections get delayed or something
like that. So the basic mechanisms of our democracy get slowed or damaged in some way
that then mixes with the fear that people have that turns to panic, that turns to anger.
Can I just play with that for a little bit? Sure.
What if, in fact, all of that structure that you grew up thinking about, and again,
you grew up in two places, right? So when you were inside the US, we tend to look at all of
these things as museum pieces. Like how often do we amend the Constitution anymore? And in some
sense, if you think about the Jewish tradition of Simpatora, you've got this beautiful scroll
that has been lovingly hand-drawn in calligraphy that's very valuable. And it's very important
that you not treat it as a relic to be revered. And so one day a year, we dance with the Torah and
we hold this incredibly vulnerable document up, and we treat it as if it was Ginger Rogers being
led by Fred Astaire. Well, that is how you become part of your country. In fact, maybe the election
will be delayed, maybe extraordinary powers will be used, maybe any one of a number of things will
indicate that you're actually living through history. This isn't a museum piece that you were
handed by your great-great grandparents. But you're kind of suggesting that there might be
a community thing that pops up. As opposed to an angry revolution, it might have a positive effect.
Well, for example, are you telling me that if the right person stood up and called for us to
sacrifice PPE for our nurses and our MDs who are on the front lines, that people wouldn't
reach down deep in their own supply that they've been stocking and carefully
storing there and just say, here, take it. Right now, an actual leader would use this time
to bring out the heroic character, and I'm going to just go wildly patriotic because I
freaking love this country. We've got this dormant population in the US that loves leadership and
country and pride in our freedom and not being told what to do, and we still have this thing that
binds us together, and all of the merchants of division just be gone. I totally agree with you.
I think there is a deep hunger for that leadership. Why hasn't one of us-
Because we don't have the right surgeon general. We have this guy saying, come on,
guys, don't buy masks. They don't really work for you. Save them for our healthcare professionals.
No, you can't do that. You have to say, you know what, these masks actually do work,
and they more work to protect other people from you, but they would work for you.
They'll keep you somewhat safer if you wear them. Here's the deal. You've got somebody who's taking
huge amounts of viral load all the time because the patients are shedding. Do you want to protect
that person who's volunteered to be in the front line, who's up sleepless nights? You just change
the message. You stop lying to people. You level with them. It's bad. Absolutely, but that's
a little bit specific, so you have to be just honest about the facts of the situation. Yes,
but I think you were referring to something bigger than just that. Yes.
It's inspiring, rewriting the constitution, sort of rethinking how we work as a nation.
Yeah, I think you should probably amend the constitution once or twice in a lifetime
so that you don't get this distance from the foundational documents. Part of the problem is
that we've got two generations on top that feel very connected to the US. They feel bought in,
and we've got three generations below. It's a little bit like watching your parents writing
the tricycle that they were supposed to pass on to you. It's like, you're now too old to ride a
tricycle, and they're still whooping it up, ringing the bell with the streamers coming off the handle
bars, and you're just thinking, do you guys never get bored? Do you never pass a torch? Do you really
want it? We had five septicinarians, all born in the 40s, running for president of the United
States when Klobuchar dropped out. The youngest was Warren. We had Warren, Biden, Sanders,
Bloomberg, and Trump from 1949 to 1941, all who had been the oldest president at inauguration.
Nobody says, grandma and grandpa, you're embarrassing us.
Except Joe Rogan. Let me put it on you. You have a big platform. You're somewhat of an
intelligent, eloquent guy. What role do you play? Why aren't you that leader? I mean, I would argue
that you're in ways becoming that leader. I haven't taken enough risk. Is that your idea?
What should I do or say at the moment? No, you have taken quite a big risks,
and we'll talk about it, but you're also on the outside shooting in,
meaning you're dismantling the institution from the outside, as opposed to becoming the
institution. Do you remember that thing you brought up when you were on The View?
The View? I'm sorry, when you were on Oprah? I didn't get the invite.
When you were on Bill Maher's program, what was that thing you were saying?
They don't know we're here. They may watch us. Yeah.
They may quietly slip us a direct message, but they pretend that this internet thing is
some dangerous place where only lunatics play. Well, who has the bigger platform,
the portal or Bill Maher's program or The View? Bill Maher in The View.
In terms of viewership or in terms of what's the metric of size?
Well, first of all, the key thing is take a newspaper and even imagine that it's completely
fake, and then there's very little in the way of circulation. Yet imagine that it's a 100-year-old
paper and that it's still part of this game, this internal game of media.
The key point is that those sources that have that mark of respectability to the institutional
structures matter in a way that even if I say something on a very large platform that makes a
lot of sense, if it's outside of what I've called the gated institutional narrative or GIN,
it doesn't matter to the institutions. The game is if it happens outside of the club,
we can pretend that it never happened. How can you get the credibility and the authority
from outside the gated institutional narrative? Well, first of all, you and I both share
institutional credibility coming from our associations. We were both at MIT.
Were you at Harvard at any point? Nope. Okay, well. And lived in Harvard Square.
So did I, but at some level, the issue isn't whether you have credentials in that sense.
The key question is, can you be trusted to file a flight plan and not deviate
from that flight plan when you are in an interview situation? Will you stick to the
talking points? I will not. And that's why you're not going to be allowed in the general conversation
which amplifies these sentiments. But I'm still trying to. So your point, it would be,
let's say both. So you've done, how many Joe Rogan? Four. I've done four too, right? So
both of us are somewhat frequent guests. The show is huge. You know the power as well as I do.
And people are going to watch this conversation. Huge number watched our last one. By the way,
I want to thank you for that one. That was a terrific, terrific conversation. Really did
change my life. Like your brilliant interviewer. So thank you. Thank you. That was, that you
changed my life too. That you gave me a chance. So I was so glad I did that one. What I would say
is, is that we keep mistaking how big the audience is for whether or not you have the kiss and the
kiss is a different thing. Kiss? What does that stand for? Well, it doesn't, it's not an acronym
