could be made accessible? I mean, I could go to the board right there and give you a five-minute
lecture on gauge theory that would be better than the official lecture on gauge theory. You
would know what gauge theory was. So it is possible to make it accessible.
Yeah, but nobody does. In other words, you're going to watch over the next year
lots of different discussions about quantum entanglement or the multiverse. Where are we now?
Many worlds, are they all equally real? Yeah.
But you're not going to hear anything about the hop vibration except if it's from me,
and I hate that. Why can't you be the one?
Well, because I'm going a different path. I think that we've made a huge mistake, which is
we have things we can show people about the actual models. We can push out visualizations
where they're not listening by analogy. They're watching the same thing that we're seeing.
And as I've said to you before, this is like choosing to perform sheet music that hasn't
been performed in a long time or the experts can't afford orchestras. So they just trade
Beethoven symphonies as sheet music and they go, oh, wow, that was beautiful. But it's like
nobody heard anything. They just looked at the score. Well, that's how mathematicians and
physicists trade papers and ideas is that they write down the things that represent stuff.
I want to at least close out this thought line that you started, which is how does the canvas
order all of this other stuff into being? So I at least want to say some incomprehensible
things about that and then we'll have that much done. On that point, does it have to be
incomprehensible? Do you know what the Schrodinger equation is? Yes. Do you know what the Dirac
equation is? What does no mean? Well, my point is you're going to have some feeling that you
know what the Schrodinger equation is. As soon as we get to the Dirac equation, your eyes are
going to get a little bit glazed. So now why is that? Well, the answer to me is that you want to
ask me about the theory of everything, but you haven't even digested the theory of everything
as we've had it since 1928 when Dirac came out with his equation. So for whatever reason,
and this isn't a hit on you, you haven't been motivated enough in all the time that you've
been on earth to at least get as far as the Dirac equation. And this was very interesting to me
after I gave the talk in Oxford. New scientist who had done kind of a hatchet job on me to begin
with sent a reporter to come to the third version of the talk that I gave, and that person had never
heard of the Dirac equation. So you have a person who is completely professionally not qualified
to ask these questions wanting to know, well, how does your theory solve new problems? Like,
well, in the case of the Dirac equation, well, tell me about that. I don't know what that is.
So then the point is, okay, I got it. You're not even caught up minimally to where we are now,
and that's not a knock on you. Almost nobody is. But then how does it become my job to digest
what has been available for like over 90 years? Well, to me, the open question is whether what's
been available for over 90 years can be, there could be a blueprint of a journey that one takes
to understand it. Oh, I want to do that with you. And one of the things I think I've been
relatively successful at, for example, you know, when you ask other people what gauge theory is,
you get these very confusing responses. And my response is much simpler. It's, oh, it's a theory
of differentiation, where when you calculate the instantaneous rise over run, you measure the rise
not from a flat horizontal, but from a custom endogenous reference level. What do you mean by
that? It's like, okay, and then I do this thing with Mount Everest, which is Mount Everest is how
high? Then they give the height, I say above what, then they say sea level. And I say, which sea is
that in Nepal? Like, oh, I guess there isn't a sea because it's landlocked. It's like, okay, well,
what do you mean by sea level? Oh, there's this thing called the geoid I'd never heard of. Oh,
that's the reference level. That's a custom reference level that we imported. So you, all sorts
of people have remembered the exact height of Mount Everest without ever knowing what it's a height
from. Well, in this case, engage theory, there's a hidden reference level where you measure the rise
in rise over run to give the slope of the line. What if you have different concepts of what,
of where that rise should be measured from that vary within the theory that are endogenous to the
theory? That's what gauge theory is. Okay, we have a video here, right? Yeah. Okay. I'm going to use
my phone. If I want to measure my hand and its slope, this is my attempt to measure it using
standard calculus. In other words, the reference level is apparently flat. And I measure the rise
above that phone using my hand. Okay. If I want to use gauge theory, it means I can do this,
or I can do that, or I can do this, or I can do this, or I could do what I did from the beginning.
Okay. At some level, that's what gauge theory is. Now that is an act. No, I've never heard anyone
describe it that way. So while the community may say, well, who is this guy and why does he have
the right to talk in public? I'm waiting for somebody to jump out of the woodwork and say,
you know, Eric's whole shtick about rulers and protractors
leading to a derivative, derivatives are measured as rise over run above reference
level, the reference levels don't fit together. Like I go through this whole shtick in order
to make it accessible. I've never heard anyone say it. I'm trying to make, Prometheus would like
to discuss fire with everybody else. All right, I'm going to just say one thing to close out the
earlier line, which is what I think we should have continued with. When you take the naturally
occurring spinners, the unadorned spinners, the naked spinners, not on, on this 14 dimensional
manifold, but on something very closely tied to it, which I've called the chimeric tangent bundle,
that is the, the object which stands in for the thing that should have had length and angle on
it, but just missed. Okay. When you take that object and you form spinners on that and you
don't adorn them. So you're still in the single origin story. You get very large spinorial objects
upstairs on this 14 dimensional world, Y 14, which is part of the observers. When you pull that
information back from Y 14 down to X four, it miraculously looks like the adorned spinners,
the festoon spinners, the spinners that we play with in ordinary reality. In other words,
the 14 dimensional world looks like a four dimensional world plus a 10 dimensional compliment.
So 10 plus four equals 14. That 10 dimensional compliment, which is called a normal bundle,
generates spin properties, internal quantum numbers that look like the things that give
our particles personality that make, let's say up quarks and down quarks charged by
negative one third or plus two thirds, that kind of stuff or whether or not
some quarks feel the weak force and other quarks do not. So the X four generates Y 14,
Y 14 generates something called the chimeric tangent bundle. Chimeric tangent bundle generates
unadorned spinners. The unadorned spinners get pulled back from 14 down to four,
where they look like adorned spinners. And we have the right number of them. You thought you
needed three, you only got two, but then something else that you'd never seen before broke apart on
this journey. And it broke into another copy of the thing that you already have two copies of,
one piece of that thing broke off. So now you have two generations plus an imposter third generation,
which is, I don't know why we never talk about this possibility in regular physics.
And then you've got a bunch of stuff that we haven't seen, which has descriptions.
So people always say, does it make any falsifiable predictions? Yes, it does.
It says that the matter that you should be seeing next has particular properties that can be read
off like, like weak isospin, weak hypercharge, like the responsiveness to the strong force.
The one I can't tell you is what energy scale it would happen at.
So you can't say if those characteristics can be detected with the current.
But it may be that somebody else can. I'm not a physicist. I'm not a quantum field theorist.
I can't, I don't know how you would do that. The hope for me is that there's some
simple explanations for all of it. Lex, should we have a drink?
You're having fun. No, I'm trying to have fun with you.
You know, I had, there's a bunch of fun things to talk about here.
Anyway, that was how I got what I thought you wanted, which is,
if you think about the fermions as the artists and the bosons as the brushes and the paint,
what I told you is that's how we get the artists.
What are the open questions for you in this? Where are the challenges? So you're not done?
Well, there's, there's things that I would like to have in better order. So a lot of people will say,
the reason I hesitate on this is I just have a totally different view than the community.
So for example, I believe that general relativity began in 1913 with Einstein and Grossman.
And that was the first of like four major papers in this line of thinking. To most physicists,
general relativity happened when Einstein produced a divergence-free gradient, which
turned out to be the gradient of the, of the so-called Hilbert or Einstein-Hilbert action.
And from my perspective, that wasn't true. This is that it began when Einstein said,
look, this is about differential geometry. And it's the final answer is going to look like
a curvature tensor on one side and matter and energy on the other side. And that was enough.
And then he published a wrong version of it, where it was the Ricci tensor, not the Einstein
tensor. Then he corrected the Ricci tensor to make it into the Einstein tensor. Then he corrected
that to add a cosmological constant. I can't stand that the community thinks in those terms.
There's some things about which, like there's a question about which contraction do I use.
There's an Einstein contraction. There's a Ricci contraction. They both go between the same spaces.
I'm not sure what I should do. I'm not sure which contraction I should choose.
This, this is called a Shia operator for ship in a bottle and my stuff.
You have this big platform in many ways that inspires people's curiosity about physics
and mathematics. Right.
Now, and I'm one of those people. Great.
But then you start using a lot of words that I don't understand.
And, or I might know them, but I don't understand. And what's unclear to me if I'm supposed to be
listening to those words, or if it's just, if this is one of those technical things that's
intended for a very small community, or if I'm supposed to actually take those words and start,
you know, a multi year study, not a serious study, but the kind of study when you,
you're interested in learning about machine learning, for example, or any kind of discipline.
That's where I'm a little bit confused. So you, you speak beautifully about ideas. You often reveal
the beauty in mathematics, in geometry, and I'm unclear in what are the steps I should be taking.
I'm curious, how can I explore? How can I play with something? How can I play with these ideas?
And enjoy the beauty of not necessarily understanding the depth of a theory that you're
presenting, but start to share in the beauty, as opposed to sharing and enjoying the beauty of just
the way the passion with which you speak, which is in itself fun to listen to, but also starting
to be able to understand some aspects of this theory that I can enjoy it to, and start to build
an intuition, what the heck we're even talking about, because you're basically saying we need to
throw a lot of our ideas of views of the universe out. And I'm trying to find accessible ways in
along, not in this conversation. No, I appreciate that. So one of the things that I've done is I've
picked on one paragraph from Edward Witton. And I said, this is the paragraph. If I could only
take one paragraph with me, this is the one I'd take. And it's almost all in prose, not in equations.
And he says, look, this is, this is our knowledge of the universe at its deepest level. And he was
writing this during the 1980s. And he has three separate points that constitute our deepest knowledge.
And those three points refer to equations, one to the Einstein field equation, one to the Dirac
equation and one to the Yang-Mills Maxwell equation. Now, one thing I would do is take a look at that
paragraph and say, okay, what do these three lines mean? Like it's a finite amount of verbiage. You
can write down every word that you don't know. And you can say, what do I think? Done. Now,
young man. Yes. There's a beautiful wall in Stony Brook, New York, built by someone who
I know you will interview named Jim Simons. And Jim Simons, he's not the artist, but he's the guy who
funded it, world's greatest hedge fund manager. And on that wall contain the three equations
that Witton refers to in that paragraph. And so that is the transmission from the paragraph
or graph to the wall. Now that wall needs an owner's manual, which Roger Penrose has written,
called the road to reality. Let's call that the tome. So this is the subject of the so-called
graph wall tome project that is going on in our Discord server and our general
group around the portal community, which is how do you take something that purports in one paragraph
to say what the deepest understanding man has of the universe in which he lives.
It's memorialized on a wall, which nobody knows about, which is an incredibly gorgeous piece of
art. And that was written up in a book, which has been written for no man.
Right? Maybe it's for a woman, I don't know. But no one should be able to read this book,
because either you're a professional and you know a lot of this book, in which case it's
kind of a refresher to see how Roger thinks about these things. Or you don't even know
that this book is a self-contained invitation to understanding our deepest nature. So I would say
find yourself in the graph wall tome transmission sequence and join the graph wall tome project
if that's of interest. Okay, beautiful. Now just to linger on a little longer,
what kind of journey do you see geometric community taking? I don't know. I mean,
that's the thing is that first of all, the professional community has to get very angry
and outraged and they have to work through their feeling that this is nonsense, this is
bullshit, or like, no, wait a minute, this is really cool. Actually, I need some clarification
over here. So there's going to be some sort of weird coming back together process.
Are you already hearing murmurings of that? That's very funny. Officially, I've seen very little.
So it's perhaps happening quietly. Yeah.
You often talk about we need to get off this planet. Yep.
Can I try to sneak up on that by asking, what in your kind of view is the difference,
the gap between the science of it, the theory, and the actual engineering of building something
that leverages the theory to do something? Like, how big is that? We don't know.
Gap. I mean, if you have 10 extra dimensions to play with,
that are the rulers and protractors of the world themselves, can you gain access to those dimensions?
Do you have a hunch? So I don't know. I don't want to get ahead of myself
because you have to appreciate I can have hunches and I can, I can jaw off.
But one of the ways that I'm succeeding in this world is to not bow down to my professional
communities, nor to ignore them. Like, I'm actually interested in the criticism. I just
want to denature it so that it's not mostly interpersonal and irrelevant.
I believe that they don't want me to speculate and I don't need to speculate about this. I can
simply say I'm open to the idea that it may have engineering prospects and it may be a death sentence.
We may find out that there's not enough new here that even if it were right,
that there would be nothing new to do. I can't tell you.
That's what you mean by death sentences. There would not be exciting breakthroughs to follow on.
Wouldn't it be terrible if you couldn't, like, you can do new things in an Einsteinian world
that you couldn't do in a Newtonian world. You know, like you have twin paradoxes or
Lorentz contraction of length or any one of a number of new cool things happen in relativity
theory that didn't happen for Newton. What if there wasn't new stuff to do at the next and final level?
That would be quite sad. Let me ask a silly question.
We'll say it with a straight face.
Impossible. Let me mention Elon Musk. What are your thoughts about he's more,
you're more on the physics theory side of things. He's more on the physics engineering
side of things in terms of SpaceX efforts. What do you think of his efforts to get off this planet?
Well, I think he's the other guy who's semi-serious about getting off this planet.
I think there are two of us who are semi-serious about getting off the planet.
What do you think about his methodology and yours when you look at them?
I don't want to be against Elon because I was so excited that your top video was Ray Kurzweil
and then I did your podcast and we had some chemistry, so it zoomed up. I thought, okay,
I'm going to beat Ray Kurzweil. Just as I'm coming up on Ray Kurzweil, you're like,
and now, Alex Friedman's special, Elon Musk, and he blew me out of the water. I don't want to be
petty about it. I want to say that I don't, but I am. Here's the funny part. He's not taking enough
