number and the time and she was like not cracking a smile. I've never known her to make this kind
of a joke. And I thought this was crazy. And I was trying to have an advisor. I didn't want an
advisor, but people said you have to have one. So I took one. And I went to this room
like 15 minutes early and there was not a soul inside it. It was outside of the math department.
And it was still in the same building, the science center at Harvard.
And I sat there and I let five minutes go by. I let seven minutes go by. 10 minutes go by.
There's nobody. I thought, okay, so this was all an elaborate joke. And then like three minutes
to the hour, this graduate student walks in and like sees me and does a double take.
And then I start to see the professors in geometry and topology start to file in.
And everybody's like very disconcerted that I'm in this room. And finally,
the person who was supposed to be my advisor walks in to the seminar and sees me and goes,
why does it go? And I realized that the secret seminar is true, that the department is conducting
a secret seminar on the exact topic that I'm interested in, not telling me about it.
And that these are the reindeer games that the Rudolphs of the department are not invited to.
And so then I realized, okay, I did not understand it. There's a parallel department.
And that became the beginning of an incredible odyssey
in which I came to understand that the game that I had been sold about publication, about
blind refereeing, about openness and scientific transmission of information was all a lie.
I came to understand that at the very top, there's a second system that's about closed meetings
and private communications and agreements about citation and publication that the rest of us
don't understand and that in large measure, that is the thing that I won't submit to.
And so when you ask me questions like, well, why wouldn't you feel good about, you know,
talking to your critics or why wouldn't you feel, the answer is, oh, you don't know.
Like if you stay in a nice hotel, you don't realize that there's an entire second structure
inside of that hotel where like there's usually a workers' cafe in a resort complex that isn't
available to the people who are staying in the hotel. And then there are private hallways
inside the same hotel that are parallel structures. So that's what I found, which was,
in essence, just the way you can stay hotels your whole life and not realize that inside of
every hotel is a second structure that you're not supposed to see as the guest. There is a
second structure inside of academics that behaves totally differently with respect to how people
get dinged, how people get their grants taken away, how this person comes to have that thing named
after them. And by pretending that we're not running a parallel structure,
I have no patience for that anymore. So I got a chance to see how the game, how hardball is
really played at Harvard. And I'm now eager to play hardball back with the same people who played
hardball with me. Let me ask two questions on this. So one, do you think it's possible,
I call those people assholes, that's the technical term. Do you think it's possible that that's just
not the entire system, but a part of the system? You can navigate, you can swim in the waters
and find the groups of people who do aspire to... The guy who rescued my PhD was one of the people
who filed in to the secret seminar. Right, but are there people outside of this? Is he an asshole?
Yes, I was a bad... No, but I'm trying to make this point, which is this isn't my failure to
correctly map these people. It's yours. You have a simplification that isn't going to work.
I think, okay, assholes the wrong term, I would say lacking of character and...
What would you have had these people do? Why did they do this? Why have a secret seminar?
I don't understand the exact dynamics of a secret seminar, but I think the right thing to do
is to see individuals like you. There might be a reason to have a secret seminar,
but they should detect that an individual like you, a brilliant mind who's thinking about certain
ideas could be damaged by this. I don't think that they see it that way. The idea is we're going
to sneak food to the children we want to survive. Yeah, so that's highly problematic and there
should be people within that room. But I'm trying to say, this is the thing, the ball that can't
throw and it won't be caught. The problem is they know that most of their children won't survive,
and they can't say that. I see. Sorry to interrupt. You mean that the fact that the whole system is
underfunded, that they naturally have to pick favorites? They live in a world which reached
steady state at some level, let's say in the early 70s. In that world, before that time,
you have a professor like Norman Steenrod and you'd have 20 children, that is graduate students,
and all of them would go on to be professors and all of them would want to have 20 children.
So you start taking higher and higher powers of 20 and you see that the system could not,
it's not just about money, the system couldn't survive. So the way it's supposed to work now
is that we should shut down the vast majority of PhD programs and we should let the small
number of truly top places populate mostly teaching and research departments that aren't
PhD producing. We don't want to do that because we use PhD students as a labor force. So the whole
thing has to do with growth, resources, dishonesty, and in that world, you see all of these adaptations
to a ruthless world where the key question is where are we going to bury this huge number of
bodies of people who don't work out? So my problem was I wasn't interested in dying.
So you clearly highlight that there's aspects of the system that are broken, but as an individual,
is your role to exit the system or just acknowledge that it's a game and win it?
My role is to survive and thrive in the public eye. In other words, when you have an escapee
of the system, like yourself, such as, and that person says, you know, I wasn't exactly finished.
Let me show you a bunch of stuff. Let me show you that the theory of telomeres never got reported
properly. Let me show you that all of marginal economics is supposed to be redone with a different
version of the differential calculus. Let me show you that you didn't understand the
self-dual Yang-Mills equations correctly in topology and physics because they're in fact
much more broadly found and it's only the mutations that happen in special dimensions. There are lots
of things to say, but this particular group of people, like if you just take, where are all the
Gen X and Millennial University presidents? They're all in a holding pattern. Now,
why in the story of telomeres was it an older professor and a younger graduate student?
It's this issue of what would be called interference competition. So, for example,
orcas try to drown minke whales by covering their blow holes so that they suffocate because the
needed resource is air. Okay, well, what do the universities do? They try to make sure that you
can't be viable, that you need them, that you need their grants, you need to be
zinged with overhead charges or fringe rates or all of the games that the locals love to play.
Well, my point is, okay, what's the cost of this? How many people died as a result of these
interference competition games? When you take somebody like Douglas Prasher who did green
fluorescent protein and he drives a shuttle bus, right? Because his grant runs out and he has to
give away all of his research and all of that research gets a Nobel Prize and he gets to drive
a shuttle bus for $35,000 a year. What do you mean by died? Do you mean their career, their dreams,
their passions? Yeah, as an academic, Doug Prasher was dead for a long period of time.
Okay, so as a person who's escaped the system, can't you at this because you also have in your
mind a powerful theory that may turn out to be useful, maybe not? Let's hope.
Can't you also play the game enough like with the children? So like publish and but also-
If you told me that this would work, really what I want to do, you see, is I would love to
revolutionize a field with an H index of zero. Like we have these proxies that count how many
papers you've written, how cited are the papers you've written. All this is nonsense.
That's interesting. Sorry, what do you mean by a field with an H index of zero? So I totally
H index is count somehow how many papers have you gotten that get so many citations.
Let's say H index undefined. Like for example, I don't have an advisor for my PhD,
but I have to have an advisor as far as something called the math genealogy project that tracks
who advised whom down the line. So I am my own advisor, which sets up a loop.
How many students do I have an infinite number or descendants? They don't want to have that story.
So I have to be, I have to have formal advisor Raoul Bot and my Wikipedia entry, for example,
says that I was advised by Raoul Bot, which is not true. So you get fit into a system that says,
well, we have to know what your H index is. We have to know,
you know, where are you a professor if you want to apply for a grant? It makes all of these
assumptions. What I'm trying to do is in part to show all of this is nonsense. This is proxy BS
that came up in the institutional setting. And right now it's important for those of us who are
still vital like Elon. It would be great to have Elon as a professor of physics and engineering.
Yeah, right. It seems ridiculous to say, but just as a shot in the arm,
you know, like, it'd be great to have Elon at Caltech, even one day a week, one day a month.
Okay. Well, why can't we be in there? It's the same reason. Well, why can't you be on the view?
Why can't you be on Bill Maher? We need to know what you're going to do before we take you on the
show. Well, I don't want to tell you what I'm going to do. Do you think you need to be able to
dance the dance a little bit? I can dance the dance fun to be on the view. Oh, come on. So you
can. Yeah, you do. You're not. I can do that fine. Here's where the place that it goes south is
there like a set of questions that get you into this more adversarial stuff. And you've in fact
asked some of those more adversarial questions this setting. And they're not things that are
necessarily aggressive, but they're things that are making assumptions. Right. So when you have
a question, it's like, you know, Lex, are you avoiding your critics? You know, it's just like,
okay, well, why did you frame that that way? Or the next question would be like,
do you think that you should have a special exemption and that you should have the right
to break rules and everyone else should have to follow them? Like that question I find
innervating. Yeah. It doesn't really come out of anything meaningful. It's just like we feel
we're supposed to ask that of the other person to show that we're not captured by their madness.
That's not the real question you want to ask me. If you want to get really excited about this,
you want to ask, do you think this thing is right? Yeah, weirdly, I do. Do you think that it's going
to be immediately seen to be right? I don't. I think it's going to, it's going to have an
interesting fight and it's going to have an interesting evolution. And what do you hope
to do with it in non physical terms? Gosh, I hope it revolutionizes our relationship of
well, with people outside of the institutional framework and it reinflicts us into the institutional
framework where we can do the most good to bring the institutions back to health.
You know, it's like, these are positive uplifting questions. If you had Frank Wilczek,
you wouldn't say, Frank, let's be honest, you have done very little with your life after the
original huge show that you used to break onto the physics scene. Like we weirdly ask people
different questions based upon how they sit down. Yeah, that's very strange, right? But
you have to understand that. So here's the thing, I get these days a large number of emails from
people with the equivalent of a theory of everything for AGI. Yeah. And I use my own radar, BS radar,
to detect unfairly, perhaps, whether they're full of shit or not.
Right. I love where you're going with this, by the way.
My concern that I often think about is there's elements of brilliance in what people write to
me. And I'm trying to right now, as you made it clear, the kind of judgments and assumptions
would make, how am I supposed to deal with you who are not an outsider of the system? And think
about what you're doing, because my radar is saying you're not full of shit. But I'm also not
completely outside of the system. That's right. You've danced beautifully. You've actually got all
the credibility that you're supposed to get all the nice little stamps of approval, not all, but
a large enough amount. I mean, it's hard to put into words exactly why
you sound, whether your theory turns out to be good or not, you sound like a special human being.
I appreciate that. And thank you very much. In a good way.
All right. So, but what am I supposed to do with that flood of emails from AGI?
Why do I sound different? I don't know. And I would like to systemize that. I don't know.
Look, when you're talking to people, you very quickly can surmise, like,
am I claiming to be a physicist? No, I say it every turn, I'm not a physicist.
When I say, when you say something about bundles, you say, well, can you explain it
differently? I'm pushing around on this area, that lever over there. I'm trying to find something
that we can play with and engage. And another thing is that I'll say something at scale.
So, if I was saying completely wrong things about bundles on the Joe Rogan program,
you don't think that we wouldn't hear a crushing chorus?
And, you know, same thing with geometric unity. So, I put up this video from this Oxford lecture.
I understand that it's not a standard lecture, but you haven't heard, you know,
the most brilliant people in the field say, well, this is obviously nonsense.
They don't know what to make of it. And they're going to hide behind, well,
he hasn't said enough details. Where's the paper?
Where's the paper? I've seen the criticism. I've gotten the same kind of criticism.
I've published a few things, especially stuff related to Tesla. We did studies on Tesla vehicles.
And the kind of criticism I've gotten showed that they're completely...
Oh, right. Like the guy who had Elon Musk on his program twice is going to give us an accurate
assessment. Exactly. It's just very low level.
Like without actually ever addressing the content.
You know, Lex, I think that in part you're trying to solve a puzzle that isn't really your puzzle.
I think you know that I'm sincere. You don't know whether the theory is going to work or not.
And you know that it's not coming out of somebody who's coming out of left field.
Like the story makes sense. There's enough that's new and creative and different in other
aspects where you can check me that your real concern is, are you really telling me that when
you start breaking the rules, you see the system for what it is and it's become really vicious
and aggressive? And the answer is yes. And I had to break the rules in part because of learning
issues because I came into this field with a totally different set of attributes. My profile
just doesn't look like anybody else's remotely. But as a result, what that did is it showed me
what is the system true to its own ideals? Or does it just follow these weird procedures?
And then when it, when you take it off the rails, it behaves terribly. And that's really what my
story I think does is it just says, well, he completely takes the system into new territory
where it's not expecting to have to deal with somebody with these confusing sets of attributes.
And I think what he's telling us is he believes it behaves terribly. Now,
if you take somebody with perfect standardized tests and a winner of math competitions,
and you put them in a PhD program, they're probably going to be okay. I'm not saying that the system
breaks down for everybody under all circumstances. I'm saying when you present the system with a
novel situation, at the moment, it will almost certainly break down with probability approaching
100%. But to me, the painful and the tragic thing is it sorry to bring out my motherly instinct,
but it feels like it's too much. It could be too much of a burden to exist outside the system.
Maybe by psychologically. First of all, I've got a podcast that I kind of like.
And you've got amazing friends. I have a life which has more interesting people passing through
it than I know what to do with. And they haven't managed to kill me off yet. So far, so good.
Speaking of which, you host an amazing podcast that we've mentioned several times,
but should mention over and over the portal where you somehow manage every single conversation
is a surprise. You go, I mean, not just the guests, but just the places you take them,
the kind of ways they become challenging and how you recover from that. I mean, it's full of
genuine human moments. So I really appreciate what you're, it's a fun podcast to listen to.
Let me ask some silly questions about it. What have you learned about conversation,
about human to human conversation? Well, I have a problem that I haven't solved on the portal,
which is that in general, when I ask people questions, they usually find their deeply
grooved answers. And I'm not so interested in all of the deeply grooved answers. And so there's
a complaint, which I'm very sympathetic to actually, that I talk over people that I won't
sit still for the answer. And I think that that's weirdly sort of correct. It's not that I'm not
interested in hearing other voices. It's that I'm not interested in hearing the same voice
