risk. He's trying to get us to Mars. Imagine that he got us to Mars, the moon, and will throw in Titan
and nowhere good enough. The diversification level is too low. Now, there's a compatibility.
First of all, I don't think Elon is serious about Mars. I think Elon is using Mars.
As a narrative, as a story, as a dream?
No, to make the moon jealous.
I think he's using it as a story to organize us, to reacquaint ourselves with our need for space,
our need to get off this planet. It's a concrete thing. He's shown that many people think that
he's shown that he's the most brilliant and capable person on the planet. I don't think
that's what he showed. I think he showed that the rest of us have forgotten our capabilities.
He's the only guy who has still kept the faith and is like, what's wrong with you people?
So you think the lesson we should draw from Elon Musk is there's a capable person within a lot of
us? Elon makes sense to me. In what way? He's doing what any sensible person should do. He's
trying incredible things and he's partially succeeding, partially failing. To try to solve
the obvious problems before us. Everybody comes up with things like, I got it. We'll come up with
a battery company, but batteries aren't sexy, so we'll make a car around it. It's like, great.
Any one of a number of things, Elon is behaving like a sane person and I view everyone else as
insane. My feeling is that we really have to get off this planet. We have to get out of this.
We have to get out of the neighborhood. Do you think that's a physics problem or an engineering
problem? I think it's a cowardice problem. I think that we're afraid that we had 400 hitters of the
mind like Einstein and Dirac and that era is done and now we're just sort of copy editors.
So is some of it money? If we become brave enough to go outside the solar system,
can we afford to financially? Well, I think that that's not really the issue. The issue is
look what Elon did well. He amassed a lot of money and then he plowed it back in and he spun
the wheel and he made more money and now he's got FU money. Now, the problem is that
a lot of the people who have FU money are not people whose middle finger you ever want to see.
I want to see Elon's middle finger. What do you mean by that? Or when you say,
fuck it, I'm going to do the biggest possible thing. He's going to do whatever the fuck he wants.
Fuck you. Fuck anything that gets in his way that he can afford to push out of his way.
And you're saying he's not actually even doing that enough? No. He's not going.
Elon's doing fine with his money. I just want him to enjoy himself, have the most
you know, Dionysian. Well, no, but you're saying Mars is playing it safe.
He doesn't know how to do anything else. He knows rockets. Yeah.
And he might know some physics at a fundamental level. Yeah. I guess, okay,
just let me just go right back to it. How much physics do you really, how much
brilliant breakthrough ideas on the physics side do you need to get off this planet?
I don't know. And I don't know whether, like in my most optimistic dream,
I don't know whether my stuff gets us off the planet, but it's hope.
It's hope that there's a more fundamental theory that we can access,
that we don't need, you know, whose elegance and beauty will suggest that
this is probably the way the universe goes. Like you have to say this weird thing, which is this,
I believe, and this I believe is a very dangerous statement, but this I believe,
I believe that my theory points the way. Now, Elon might or might not be able to
access my theory. I don't know. I don't know what he knows, but keep in mind,
why are we also focused on Elon? It's really weird. It's kind of creepy too.
Why? He's just the person who's just asking the obvious questions and
doing whatever he can. But he makes sense to me. You see, Craig
Venter makes sense to me. Jim Watson makes sense to me.
But we're focusing on Elon because he's somehow is rare.
Well, that's the weird thing. Like we've come up with a system that eliminates all Elon
from our pipeline. And Elon somehow snuck through when they weren't quality adjusting
everything. And this idea of disk, distributed idea suppression complex,
is that what's bringing the elons of the world down?
It's so funny. He's asking Joe Rogan, is that a joint? It's like, what will happen
if I smoke it? What will happen to the stock price? What will happen if I scratch myself
in public? What will happen if I say what I think about Thailand or COVID or who knows what?
And everybody's like, don't say that. Say this. Go do this. Go do that.
Well, it's crazy making. It's absolutely crazy making. And if you think about what we put through
people through, we need to get people who can use FU money, the FU money they need to insulate
themselves from all of the people who know better. Because my nightmare is that
why did we only get one Elon? What if we were supposed to have thousands and thousands of
elons? And the weird thing is like, this is all that remains. You're looking at like Obi-Wan
and Yoda. And it's like, this is all that's left after Order 66 has been executed.
And that's the thing that's really upsetting to me is we used to have elons five deep. And then
we could talk about Elon in the context of his cohort. But this is like, if you were to see a
giraffe in the Arctic with no trees around, you'd think, why the long neck? What a strange site.
How do we get more elons? How do we change things? So we know MIT and Harvard. So maybe
returning to our previous conversation, my sense is that the elons of the world are supposed to
come from MIT and Harvard. Right. And how do you change? Let's think of one that MIT sort of killed.
Have any names in mind? Aaron Schwartz leaps to my mind. Yeah. Okay. Are we MIT supposed to shield
the Aaron Schwartz's from, I don't know, journal publishers? Or are we supposed to help the journal
publishers so that we can throw 35 year sentences in his face or whatever it is that we did that
depressed him? Okay. So here's my point. Yeah. I want MIT to go back to being the home of Aaron
Schwartz. And if you want to send Aaron Schwartz to a state where he's looking at 35 years in
prison or something like that, you are my sworn enemy. You are not MIT. Yeah. You are the traitorous,
irresponsible, middle brow, pencil pushing, green eye shade fool that needs to not be in the seat
at the presidency of MIT. Period. The end. Get the fuck out of there and let one of our people
sit in that chair. And the thing that you've articulated is that the people in those chairs
are not the way they are because they're evil or somehow morally compromised is that it's just
that's the distributed nature is that there's some kind of aspect of the system. These are people who
wed themselves to the system. They adapt every instinct. And the fact is that they're not going
to be on Joe Rogan smoking a blunt. Let me ask a silly question. Do you think institutions
generally just tend to become that? No. We get some of the institutions. We get Caltech.
Here's what we're supposed to have. We're supposed to have Caltech. We're supposed to have read.
We're supposed to have deep springs. We're supposed to have MIT. We're supposed to have a part of
Harvard. And when the sharp elbow crowd comes after the sharp mind crowd, we're supposed to
break those sharp elbows and say, don't come around here again. So what are the weapons that
the sharp minds are supposed to use in our modern day? So to reclaim MIT. What is the
what's the future? Are you kidding me? First of all, assume that this is being seen at MIT.
Hey, everybody. Hey, everybody. Try to remember who you are. You're the guys who put the police
car on top of the great dump. You guys came up with the great breast of knowledge. You created
a Tetris game in the green building. Now, what is your problem? They killed one of your own.
You should make their life a living hell. You should be the ones who keep the memory of Aaron
Schwartz alive and all of those hackers and all of those mutants. It's like it's either our place
or it isn't. And if we have to throw 12 more pianos off of the roof, if Harold Edgerton was
taking those photographs with Slow Mo back in the 40s, if Noam Chomsky is on your faculty,
what the hell is wrong with you kids? You are the most creative and insightful people and you
can't figure out how to defend Aaron Schwartz. That's on you guys. So some of that is giving
more power to the young, like you said, the brave people. No, taking power from the feeble
and the middle brown. Yeah, but what is the mechanism to me? I don't know. Do you have
some nine volt batteries? No. It's a copper wire. I tend to... Do you have a capacitor?
I tend to believe you have to create an alternative and make the alternative so much
better that it makes MIT obsolete unless they change and that's what forces change. So as
opposed to somehow... Okay, so use projection mapping. What's projection mapping? Where you
take some complicated edifice and you map all of its planes and then you actually project some
unbelievable graphics, reskinning a building, let's say at night. That's right. Yeah. Okay,
so you want to do some graffiti art with light. You basically want to hack the system?
No, I'm saying, look, listen to me, Liv. We're smarter than they are. And they... You know what
they say? They say things like, I think we need some geeks. Get me two PhDs. Right. You treat
PhDs like that, that's a bad move. Because PhDs are capable and we act like our job is to peel
grapes for our betters. Yeah, that's a strange thing. And you speak about it very eloquently.
It's how we treat basically the greatest minds in the world, which is like at their prime,
which is PhD students. We pay them nothing. I'm done with it. Yeah. Right? We got to take what's
ours. So take back MIT, become ungovernable, become ungovernable. And by the way, when you
become ungovernable, don't do it by throwing food. Don't do it by pouring salt on the lawn,
like a jerk. Do it through brilliance, because what you Caltech and MIT can do, and maybe
Rensselaer Polytechnic or Worcester Polytechnic, I don't know, Lehigh. Goddamn it. What's wrong
with you technical people? You act like you're a servant class. It's unclear to me how you
reclaim it, except with brilliance, like you said. But to me, that the way you reclaim it
with brilliance is to go outside the system. Aaron Schwartz came from the Elon Musk class,
what you guys are going to do about it. Right? The super capable people need to flex,
need to be individual. They need to stop giving away all their power to a zeitgeist or a community
or this or that. You're not indoor cats. You're outdoor cats. Go be outdoor cats.
Do you think we're going to see this kind of change happen?
You were the one asking me before, like what about the World War II generation?
Oh, and what I'm trying to say is that there's a technical revolt coming. You want to talk about
this? But I'm trying to lead it, right? I'm trying to see-
No, you're not trying to lead it. I'm trying to get a blueprint here.
All right. Lex, how angry are you about our country pretending that you and I can't actually do
technical subjects so that they need an army of kids coming in from four countries in Asia?
It's not about the four countries in Asia. It's not about those kids. It's about lying about us,
that we don't care enough about science and technology, that we're incapable of it,
as if we don't have Chinese and Russians and Koreans and Croatians. Like, we've got everybody
here. The only reason you're looking outside is that you want to hire cheap people from the family
business because you don't want to pass the family business on. And you know what? You didn't really
build the family business. It's not yours to decide. You, the boomers and you, the silent generation,
you did your bit, but you also fouled a lot of stuff up. And you're custodians. You are caretakers.
You were supposed to hand something. What you did instead was to gorge yourself on cheap foreign
labor, which you then held up as being much more brilliant than your own children, which was never
true. See, but I'm trying to understand how we create a better system without anger, without
revolution. Not by kissing and hugs and, but by, I mean, I don't understand within MIT what the
mechanism of building a better MIT is. We're not going to pay all severe. Aaron Schwartz was right.
JSTOR is an abomination. But why, who within MIT, who within institutions is going to do that when,
just like you said, the people who are running the show are more senior. I don't know if Frank
will check to speak out. So you're, it's basically individuals that step up. I mean, one of the
surprising things about Elon is that one person can inspire so much. He's got academic freedom.
It just comes from money. I don't agree with that. Do you think money? Okay. So yes, certainly.
Sorry. And testicles. Yes. But testicles is more important than money or guts. I think,
I do agree with you. You speak about this a lot that because the money in the academic
institutions has been so constrained that people are misbehaving and horrible. Yes. But
I don't think that if we reverse that and give a huge amount of money, people will all
of a sudden behave well. I think it also takes guts. No, you need to give people security.
Security, yes. Like you need to know that you have a job on Monday when on Friday you say,
I'm not so sure I really love diversity and inclusion. And somebody's like, wait, what?
You didn't love diversity? We had a statement on diversity and you wouldn't sign? Are you against
the inclusion part or are you against diversity? Do you just not like people like you? You're like,
actually, that has nothing to do with anything. You're making this into something that it isn't.
I don't want to sign your goddamn stupid statement and get out of my lab, right? Get out of my lab.
It all begins from the middle finger. Get out of my lab. The administrators need to find other work.
Yeah. Listen, I agree with you and I hope to seek your advice and wisdom as we change this
because I'd love to see. I will visit you in prison if that's what you're asking.
I have no, I think prison is great. You get a lot of reading done and good working out.
Well, let me ask something I brought up before is the Nietzsche quote of
beware that when fighting monsters, you yourself do not become a monster.
For when you gaze long into the abyss, the abyss gazes into you.
Are you worried that your focus on the flaws in the system that we've just been talking about
has damaged your mind or the part of the mind of your mind that's able to see the beauty in the
world in the system? That because you have so sharply been able to see the flaws in the system
you can no longer step back and appreciate its beauty.
Look, I'm the one who's trying to get the institutions to save themselves by getting
rid of their inhabitants but leaving the institution like a neutron bomb that removes
the unworkable leadership class but leaves the structures.
So the leadership class is really the problem.
The leadership class is the problem.
The individual like the professors, the individual scholars.
The professors are going to have to go back into training to remember how to be professors.
People are cowards at the moment because if they're not cowards, they're unemployed.
Yeah, that's one of the disappointing things I've encountered is to me, tenure.
But nobody has tenure now.
Whether they do or not, they certainly don't have the kind of character and
fortitude that I was hoping to see.
But they'd be gone.
See, you're dreaming about the people who used to live at MIT.
You're dreaming about the previous inhabitants of your university.
And if you looked at somebody like Isidore Singer is very old, I don't know what state he's in,
but that guy was absolutely the real deal.
And if you look at Noam Chomsky, tell me that Noam Chomsky has been muzzled.
Right?
Yeah.
Now, what I'm trying to get at is you're talking about younger energetic people,
but those people, when I say something, I'm against, I'm for inclusion and I'm for diversity,
but I'm against diversity and inclusion, TM, like the movement.
Well, I couldn't say that if I was a professor.
Oh my God, he's against our sacred document.
Okay, well, in that kind of a world, do you want to know how many things I don't agree with you on?
We could go on for days and days and days, all of the nonsense that you've parroted
inside of the institution.
Any sane person has no need for it.
They have no want or desire.
Do you think you have to have some patience for nonsense
when many people work together in a system?
