But okay, so amidst all this silliness, I'm hoping that we could talk about the journey
that geometric unity has taken and will take as an idea and an idea that will see the light.
Yeah. So first of all, I'm thinking of writing a book called Geometric Unity for Idiots.
And I need you as a consultant. So can we...
First of all, I hope I have the trademark on geometric unity.
You do. Good.
Can you give a basic introduction of the goals of geometric unity, the basic tools of mathematics
use the viewpoints in general for idiots like me?
Okay, great. Fun.
So what's the goal of geometric unity?
The goal of geometric unity is to start with something so completely bland
that you can simply say, well, that's something that begins the game is as close to a mathematical
nothing as possible. In other words, I can't answer the question, why is there something
rather than nothing? But if there has to be a something that we begin from,
let it begin from something that's like a blank canvas.
That's even more basic. So what is something? What are we trying to describe here?
Okay. Right now, we have a model of our world and it's got two sectors.
One of the sectors is called general relativity. The other is called the standard model.
So we'll call it GR for general relativity and SM for standard model.
What's the difference between the two?
What are the two described?
So general relativity gives pride of place to gravity and everything else is acting as a sort
of a backup singer.
Gravity is the star of the show.
Gravity is the star of general relativity.
And in the standard model, the other three non-gravitational forces. So if there are four
forces that we know about three of the four non-gravitational, that's where they get to shine.
Great. So tiny little particles and how they interact with each other.
So photons, gluons, and so-called intermediate vector bosons, those are the things that the
standard model showcases and general relativity showcases gravity. And then you have matter,
which is accommodated in both theories, but much more beautifully inside of the standard model.
So what does a theory of everything do?
So first of all, I think that that's the first place where we haven't talked enough.
We assume that we know what it means, but we don't actually have any idea what it means.
And what I claim it is, is that it's a theory where the questions beyond that theory are no
longer of a mathematical nature.
In other words, if I say, let us take X to be a four-dimensional manifold.
To a mathematician or a physicist, I've said very little. I've simply said,
there's some place for calculus and linear algebra to dance together and to play.
And that's what manifolds are. They're the most natural place where our two greatest math theories
can really intertwine, which are the two. Oh, you mean the calculus and linear algebra.
Okay. Now the question is beyond that. So it's sort of like saying, I'm an artist and I want to
order a canvas. Now the question is, does the canvas paint itself? Does the canvas come up with an
artist and paint an ink, which then paint the canvas? That's the hard part about theories of
everything, which I don't think people talk enough about. Can we just, you bring up that
Escher and the hand that draws itself. The fire that lights itself or drawing hands.
The drawing hands. Yeah. And every time I start to think about that, my mind like shuts down.
Don't do that. There's a spark. This is the most beautiful part.
It's beautiful, but this robot's brain sparks fly. So can we try to say the same thing over
and over in different ways about what you mean by that having to be a thing we have to contend with?
Sure. Why do you think that creating a theory of everything, as you call the source code,
understanding our source code, require a view like the hand that draws itself?
Okay. Well, here's what goes on in the regular physics picture. We've got these two main theories,
general relativity and the standard model. Think of general relativity as more or less the theory
of the canvas. Maybe you have the canvas in a particularly rigid shape. Maybe you've measured
it so it's got length and it's got angle, but more or less, it's just canvas and length and angle.
And that's all that really general relativity is, but it allows the canvas to warp a bit.
Then we have the second thing, which is this import of foreign libraries, which aren't
tied to space and time. So we've got this crazy set of symmetries called SU3 cross SU2 cross U1.
We've got this collection of 16 particles in a generation, which are these sort of twisted
spinners. And we've got three copies of them. Then we've got this weird Higgs field that comes in
and like Deus Ex Machina solves all the problems that have been created in the play that can't be
resolved otherwise. So that's the standard model. Quantum field theory is just plopped on top of
this canvas. Yes, it's a problem of the double origin story. One origin story is about space and
time. The other origin story is about what we would call internal quantum numbers and internal
symmetries. And then there was an attempt to get one to follow from the other called Calusa Klein
theory, which didn't work out. And this is sort of in that vein. So you said origin story. So in
the hand that draws itself, what is it? So it's as if you had the canvas and then you ordered up
also give me paint brushes, paints, pigments, pencils, and artists. But you're saying that's
like, if you want to create a universe from scratch, the canvas should be generating the
paintbrushes and the paintbrushes should be generating the canvas. Who's the artist in this
analogy? Well, this is, sorry, then we're gonna get into a religious thing and I don't want to do
that. Okay. Well, you know my shtick, which is that we are the AI. We have two great stories
about the simulation and artificial general intelligence. In one story, man fears that
some program we've given birth to will become self-aware, smarter than us and will take over.
In another story, there are genius simulators and we live in their simulation. And we haven't
realized that those two stories are the same story. In one case, we are the simulator. In
another case, we are the simulated. And if you buy those and you put them together, we are the AGI
and whether or not we have simulators, we may be trying to wake up by learning our own source code.
So this could be our Skynet moment, which is one of the reasons I have some issues around it.
I think we'll talk about that because I... Well, that's the issue of the emergent artist within
the story just to get back to the point. Okay. So now the key point is the standard way we tell
the story is that Einstein sets the canvas and then we order all the stuff that we want
and then that paints the picture that is our universe. So you order the paint, you order
the artist, you order the brushes and that then when you collide the two gives you two
separate origin stories. The canvas came from one place and everything else came from somewhere else.
So what are the mathematical tools required to construct consistent geometric theory,
you know, make this concrete? Well, somehow you need to get three copies, for example,
of generations with 16 particles each, right? And so the question would be like, well,
there's a lot of special personality in those symmetries. Where would they come from?
So for example, you've got what would be called grand unified theories that sound like
SU5, the George I. Glashow theory, there's something that should be called spin 10,
but physicists insist on calling it SO10. There's something called the Patissalon theory that
tends to be called SU4 cross SU2 cross SU2, which should be called spin 6 cross spin 4.
I can get into all of these. What are they all accomplishing?
They're all taking the known forces that we see and packaging them up to say, we can't get rid of
the second origin story, but we can at least make that origin story more unified. So they're trying
grand unification as the attempt to... And that's a mistake in your... It's not a mistake that the
problem is that it was born lifeless. When George I. and Glashow first came out with the SU5 theory,
it was very exciting because it could be tested in a South Dakota mine filled up with like,
I don't know, cleaning fluid or something like that. And they looked for proton decay and didn't
see it. And then they gave up because in that day, when your experiment didn't work, you gave up on
the theory. It didn't come to us born of a fusion between Einstein and Bohr. And that was kind of
the problem is that it had this weird parenting where it was just on the Bohr side. There was no
Einsteinian contribution. Lex, how can I help you most? I'm trying to figure out what questions you
want to ask so that you get the most satisfying answers. There's a bunch of questions I want to
ask. And I'm trying to sneak up on you somehow to reveal in an accessible way the nature of our
universe. Well, I can just give you a guess. We have to be very careful that we're not claiming
that this has been accepted. This is a speculation. But I will make the speculation that what I think
what you would want to ask me is how can the canvas generate all the stuff that usually has to be
ordered separately? Should we do that? Let's go there. Okay. So the first thing is that you have
a concept in computers called technical debt. You're coding and you cut corners and you know
you're going to have to do it right before the thing is safe for the world. But you're piling up
some series of IOUs to yourself and your project as you're going along. So the first thing is
we can't figure out if you have only four degrees of freedom and that's what your canvas is. How do
you get at least Einstein's world? Einstein says, look, it's not just four degrees of freedom, but
there need to be rulers and protractors to measure length and angle in the world. You can't just have
a flabby four degrees of freedom. So the first thing you do is you create 10 extra variables,
which is like if we can't choose any particular set of rulers and protractors to measure length
and angle, let's take the set of all possible rulers and protractors and that would be called
symmetric non-degenerate two tensors on the tangent space of the four manifold X4.
Now, because there are four degrees of freedom, you start off with four dimensions, then you need four
rulers for each of those different directions. So that's four, that gets us up to eight variables.
And then between four original variables, there are six possible angles. So four plus four plus six
is equal to 14. So now you've replaced X4 with another space, which in the lecture,
I think I called U14, but I'm now calling Y14. This is one of the big problems of working on
something in private is every time you pull it out, you sort of can't remember it, you name
something something new. Okay, so you've got a 14 dimensional world, which is the original four
dimensional world, plus a lot of extra gadgetry for measurement. And because you're not in the
four dimensional world, you don't have the technical debt. No, now you've got a lot of
technical debt, because now you have to explain away a 14 dimensional world, which is a big,
you're taking a huge advance on your payday check, right? But aren't more dimensions allow you more
freedom? Maybe, but you have to get rid of them somehow because we don't perceive them.
So eventually you have to collapse it down to the thing that we perceive.
Or you have to sample a four dimensional filament within that 14 dimensional world known as a
section of a bundle. Okay, so how do we get from the 14 dimensional world where I imagine a lot of
14? Wait, wait, wait, wait, you're cheating. The first question was, how do we get something from
almost nothing? Like how do we get the, if I've said that the who and the what in the newspaper
story that is a theory of everything are bosons and fermions. So let's make the who the fermions
and the what the bosons think of as the players and the equipment for a game.
Are we supposed to be thinking of actual physical things with mass or energy?
Yep. Okay. So think about everything you see in this room. So from chemistry, you know, it's all
protons, neutrons and electrons, but from a little bit of late 1960s physics, we know that the protons
and neutrons are all made of up quarks and down quarks. So everything in this room is basically
up quarks, down quarks and electrons stuck together with, with the, the what the equipment.
Okay. Now the way we see it currently is we see that there are space time indices, which we would
call spinners that correspond to the who that is the fermions, the matter, the stuff, the up quarks,
the down quarks, the electrons. And there are also 16 degrees of freedom that come from this in
this space of internal quantum numbers. So in my theory, in 14 dimensions, there's no internal
quantum number space that figures in. It's all just spinorial. So spinners in 14 dimensions
without any festooning with extra linear algebraic information,
there's a concept of a, of spinners, which is natural if you have a manifold with length and
angle and why 14 is almost a manifold with length and angle. It's, it's so close. It's,
in other words, because you're looking at the space of all rulers and protractors, maybe it's not
that surprising that a space of rulers and protractors might come very close to having
rulers and protractors on it itself. Like, can you measure the space of measurements and you almost
can? In a space that has length and angle, if it doesn't have a topological obstruction,
comes with these objects called spinners. Now, spinners are the stuff of, of our world. We are
made of spinners. They are the most important, really deep object that I can tell you about.
They were very surprising. What is a spinner? So famously, there are these weird things that
require 720 degrees of rotation in order to come back to normal. And that doesn't make sense.
And the reason for this is that there's a knottedness in our three-dimensional world
that people don't observe. And, you know, you can famously see it by this Dirac string trick.
So if you take a glass of water, imagine that this was a tumbler and I didn't want to spill any of it.
And the question is, if I rotate the cup without losing my grip on the base 360 degrees,
and I can't go backwards, is there any way I can take a sip? And the answer is this weird
motion, which is go over first and under second. And that's 720 degrees of rotation to come back
to normal so that I can take a sip. Well, that weird principle, which sometimes is known as the
Philippine wine glass dance because waitresses in the Philippines apparently learned how to do this.
That move defines, if you will, this hidden space that nobody knew was there of spinners,
which Dirac figured out when he took the square root of something called the Klein Gorton equation,
which I think had earlier work incorporated from Cartan and Killing & Company
in mathematics. So spinners are one of the most profound aspects of human existence.
I mean, forgive me for the perhaps dumb questions, but would a spinner be the mathematical
objects that's the basic unit of our universe? When you start with a manifold,
which is just like something like a donut or a sphere or a circle or a mobius band,
a spinner is usually the first wildly surprising thing that you found was hidden in your original
purchase. So you order a manifold and you didn't even realize it's like buying a house and finding
a panic room inside that you hadn't counted on. It's very surprising when you understand
that spinners are running around in your spaces. Again, perhaps a dumb question,
but we're talking about 14 dimensions and four dimensions. What is the manifold we're operating
under? So in my case, it's proto spacetime. It's before Einstein can slap rulers and protractors
on spacetime. What you mean by that, sorry to interrupt, is spacetime is the 4D manifold.
Spacetime is a 4D manifold with extra structure.
What's the extra structure? It's called a semi-Romanian or pseudo-Romanian metric.
In essence, there is something akin to a 4x4 symmetric matrix which is equivalent to length
and angle. So when I talk about rulers and protractors or I talk about length and angle
or I talk about Romanian or pseudo-Romanian or semi-Romanian manifolds, I'm usually talking
about the same thing. Can you measure how long something is and what the angle is between two
different rays or vectors? So that's what Einstein gave us as his arena, his place to play, his
canvas. There's a bunch of questions I can ask here, but like I said, I'm working on this book,
Geometric Unity for Idiots. I think what would be really nice as your editor to have beautiful,
maybe even visualizations that people could try to play with, try to reveal small little
beauties about the way you're thinking about the score. Well, I usually use the Joe Rogan program
for that. Sometimes I have him doing this Philippine wine glass dance. I had the hop
vibration. The part of the problem is that most people don't know this language about spinners,
bundles, metrics, gauge fields, and they're very curious about the theory of everything,
but they have no understanding of even what we know about our own world. Is it a hopeless
pursuit? No.
Like even gauge theory. It seems to be very inaccessible. Is there some aspect of it that
