on my program that I could have gotten than somebody else's. And I haven't solved that well.
So I've learned that I need a new conversational technique where I can keep somebody from finding
their comfortable place and yet not be the voice talking over that person.
Yeah, it's funny. I get in a sense like your conversation with Brett, I can sense you detect
that the line he's going under down is, you know how it's going to end. And you don't, you think
it's a useless line. So you'll just stop it right there and you take them into the direction that
you think it should go. But that requires interruption. Well, and it does so far. I haven't
found a better way. I'm looking for a better way. It's not like I don't hear the problem. I do hear
the problem. I just, I haven't solved the problem. And, you know, on the, on the Brett episode,
I was insufferable. It was very difficult to listen to. It was so overbearing. But on the other
hand, I was right. You know, it's like funny. You keep saying that, but I didn't find it,
maybe because I heard brothers, like I heard a big brother. Yeah, it was pretty bad.
Really? I think so. I didn't think it was bad at all. Well, a lot of people found it insufferable.
Interesting. And I think it also has to do with the fact that this has become a frequent experience.
I have several shows where somebody who I very much admire and think of as courageous,
you know, I'm talking with them, maybe we're friends and they sit down on the show
and they immediately become this fake person. Like two seconds in, they're, they're sort of
saying, well, I don't want to be too critical or too harsh. I don't want to name any names. I want
to this, don't, he's like, okay, I'm going to put my listeners through three hours of you being
sweetness and light. Yeah. Like at least give me some reality and then we can decide to shelve
the show and never let it hear, you know, the, the, the call of freedom in the, in the bigger world.
But I've seen you break out of that a few times. I've seen you be successful with it. I forgot
to guess, but she was dressed with, um, um, you, where you, at the end of the episode,
you had an argument about Brett. I forgot. Agnes Collar. Yeah. Agnes Collar, the
philosopher at the University of Chicago. Yeah. You've continuously broken out of her.
Uh, you guys went, you know, uh, I didn't even seem pretty genuine.
I like her. I'm completely ethically opposed to what she's ethically for.
Well, she was great and she wasn't like that you're both going hard.
She's a grown up. Yeah. Exactly. And she doesn't like care about her. So she's.
That was awesome. Yeah. But you're saying that some people are difficult to break out.
Well, it's just that, you know, she was bringing the courage of her convictions. She was sort of
defending the system. And I thought, wow, that's a pretty indefensible system that you defend.
But that's great though. She's doing that, isn't it? I mean,
it made for an awesome. I think it's very informative for the world.
Yes. You just hated. I just can't stand the idea that somebody says, well,
we don't care who gets paid or who gets the credit as long as we get the goodies,
because that seems like insane. Have you ever been afraid leading into a conversation?
Gary Kasparov.
Really? By the way, I mean, I know I'm just a fan taking requests.
But I started the beginning in Russian. And in fact, I used one word incorrectly.
Is that terrible? You know, it was pretty good. It's pretty good Russian.
What was terrible is I think he complimented you, right? No,
did he compliment you or use that me? Did he compliment you on your Russian?
Well, he said almost perfect Russian. Yeah, like he was full of shit.
That was not great Russian. That was not great Russian.
That was great. That was hard. You tried hard, which is what matters.
That is so insulting. I hope so. But I do hope you continue.
I don't know how long it went. It might have been like a two hour conversation,
but it felt, I hope it continues. I feel like you have many good conversations with Gary.
I would love to hear. There's certain conversation I would just love to hear
much, much longer. Well, he's coming from a very,
it's this issue about needing to overpower people in a very dangerous world.
And so Gary has that need.
Yeah, he was interrupting you. Sure.
It was an interesting dynamic. It was an interesting dynamic.
Two Weinstein's going on. I mean, two powerhouse egos,
brilliant. No, you don't say egos. Mines, spirits.
You don't have an ego. You're the most humble person I know.
Is that true? No, that's a complete lie.
Do you think about your own mortality, death? Sure.
Are you afraid? Well, death.
I released a theory during something that can kill older people. Sure.
Oh, is there a little bit of a parallel there?
Of course. Of course. I don't want it to die with me.
What do you hope your legacy is?
Oh, I hope my legacy is accurate.
I'd like to write on my accomplishments rather than how my community decided to
ding me while I was alive. That would be great.
What about if it was significantly exaggerated?
I don't want it. You want it to be accurate?
Well, I've got some pretty terrific stuff. Whether it works out or doesn't,
I would like it to reflect what I actually was.
I'll settle for accurate.
What would you say is the greatest element of
Eric Weinstein's accomplishment in life,
in terms of being accurate? What are you most proud of?
Trying.
The idea that we were stalled out in the hardest field at the most difficult juncture,
and that I didn't listen to that voice ever that said, stop. You're hurting yourself.
You're hurting your family. You're hurting everybody. You're embarrassing yourself.
You're screwing up. You can't do this. You're a failure. You're a fraud.
Turn back. Save yourself. That voice, I didn't ultimately listen to it,
and it was going for 35, 37 years. Very hard.
And I hope you never listen to that voice. That's why you're an inspiration.
Thank you. I appreciate that.
Eric, you're the... I'm just infinitely honored that you would spend time with me.
You've been a mentor to me, almost a friend. I can't imagine a better person to talk to in
this world, so thank you so much for talking to me.
I can't wait till we do it again. Lex, thanks for sticking with me, and thanks for being
the most singular guy in the podcasting space. In terms of all of my interviews,
I would say that the last one I did with you, many people feel was my best,
and it was a non-conventional one, so whatever it is that you're bringing to the game,
I think everyone's noticing, and keep at it.
Thank you.
Alex Friedman. And now, let me leave you with some words of wisdom from Eric Weinstein's first
appearance on this podcast. Everything is great about war, except all the destruction.
Thank you for listening, and hope to see you next time.
