On the object level, they're right on the object level.
They're not smart enough to realize that new trade deals are for the good of
all, or that smashing the stage would actually lead to mass famine and disaster.
Conflict theorists naturally think mistake theorists are the enemy in their conflict.
They've become part of a class that's more interested in protecting its own
privileges than in helping the poor or the work or working for the good of all.
Conflict theorists aren't mistake theorists who just have a different
theory about what the mistake theory is.
They're not going to respond to your criticism by politely explaining why
you're incorrect.
Which, yeah, I think that's kind of where we just were.
Yeah, right.
Damon, I want to dig us out of that sad hole and now we're just still in it.
But well, you got the main talking point here at the bottom.
Yeah, I think we kind of talked about it though.
I was, there's a line in there, uh, towards end of the article where Scott says,
I'm pretty sure it would be wrong to steelman the conflict theory into a nice
cooperative explanation of how we all need to join together, realize the conflict
theory is objectively the correct way to think and then use this insight to help
us cure our mutual patient state.
I think we've kind of hashed out that maybe there isn't a way to do that or, you
know, if it is, it's just at the point where they're, I mean, I could imagine a
point like, I mean, if I lived in Nazi Germany, I'd like, you know, I was who I
am and I wasn't raised by the propaganda state.
I would like to think like, no, I'm not going to engage with them and talk with
them like, no, it's time to grab my rifle and, and, you know, let's free these
people, let's, let's knock the shit over.
Um, the conversation is passed.
And so at that point it's like it's done.
And so some, some people are already in that position or if they feel like they
are, I get it.
They're not, they're not going to hear it.
At that point, you know, the, you know, if, if my, my, uh, I don't know what
you call them, my, my squad of people have already taken this town and they're
like in the Nazis, like, no, let's meet.
Let's see if we can come up with an amicable, amicable agreement.
And they're, you know, and it is an apparent meeting of good faith.
They're not going to just bomb us or something.
And it's like, you know, I'm not going to sit down and talk with you.
I've, I've, I'm done having conversations.
We're going to keep pushing the line, right?
So I, I get that mindset when I don't, when I'm not convinced to
watch over us that we're there at all.
Um, things are, you know, yes, things suck for a lot of people, but they're
pretty fucking good.
And I say that knowing who I am and where I'm from, but I mean, just
from a historical perspective, the presence, the best time to have been alive.
Yeah.
Certainly if you like, you know, eating food and not dying of illness, right?
Um, which we all appreciate.
I think reception, there's like germ theory of disease.
Yeah.
If you value those things that absolutely, if you value like meaning in life, I
think there may have been other periods in life that were in the history that
were much better for that, but you generally died a lot along the way.
I like, I think you define meaning however you want.
My, I define meaning as like advancing human knowledge.
And I think that this is a better time for that.
But if you define meaning as like your, your, your ability to
individually contribute to the well-being of society.
That's not how I define meaning.
Oh, and that's what I'm saying.
So yeah, meaning should be tabooed here and we can just use the, the long
versions, but if you, if what gets, if what gets you out of bed in the morning is
like, I'm going to, I'm going to do something today.
Then yeah, that was easier to do before probably, especially in a smaller society
where it's like, you're the guy who makes chairs.
Not really.
I don't even think so.
Like I, I'm curing cancer now.
And like if I were born in any other time period, I'd just
probably be popping babies out.
That's fair.
Yeah.
That's a good point.
It would depend on who you were back then too.
Um, certainly if, if you were born in the wrong part of the world now, and
like you weren't allowed to learn to read, then certainly your ability to
contribute to in any meaningful way would be in a way that you would find
meaningful would be hugely stunted, right?
Well, how would you be able to cure cancer if, if it was a crime for
you to become literate, right?
Um, yeah.
What if I wasn't born because I forget what percentage of babies just died.
Oh yeah.
I think half of people didn't make it to age five.
Yeah.
That makes the parents a pretty good picture.
The things are pretty good now, but, uh, you know, a revolution didn't
solve, a violent revolution didn't solve the infant, the, uh, infant
mortality rate problem, right?
Yeah.
That was, that was, uh, uh, what's that big mistake theorists like framework
called science.
Um, so I think a large part of the problem is that conflict theory really
is useful when there is an actual conflict and sometimes there are, and
it's just depending how much, how much conflict theory you need to use
depends on what society you're in.
And oftentimes how much conflict theory you actually use is based on what
you learned as you were growing up about the society you're in, which is
not necessarily the same as where you are now as, as an adult, because most
people have moved and, uh, a lot of people's society was determined a
lot by their parents, which once you get away from your parents, isn't
really that much of a thing anymore.
Whereas back in the ancestral environment, your society was your society
for your entire life.
So, uh, I think a lot of people are still in conflict theory mode.
Once they get into wider American society where they don't need it.
Um, although there's still places in American society where you do
still need it even as an adult.
Yeah.
One thing I liked about this post too, on like a meta, meta note is that
this wasn't strictly reds versus blues.
I mean, I know, I know blue conflict there is absolutely.
And so, and I know, I know red mistake there is.
And so it, this isn't just, I identify more with red mistake
theorists than I do with blue conflict theorists.
Yeah.
I would have to, cause I, I, I don't feel like the solution right now is let's
just burn it down and see what happens afterwards.
I think that's what drove me away from the blue tribe was the prevalence
of conflict theorists that I saw in my local blue groups.
Yep.
Me too.
Yeah.
We need something more chipper.
Right.
Somebody in the comments, uh, had said that, and, and Scott did address this,
but, uh, I think that this is kind of, you're trying to describe screw
theorists versus nail theorists when it comes to building a house without
realizing that generally you're going to be using both for different things.
And then Scott kind of replied, yeah, I know.
But I mean, I'm trying to point out a thing that I think exists and make a
ridiculous version of it to try to distill it down to its elements.
And, but I think that, yeah, like in the real world, generally people do that.
They're kind of two different tools that you can use.
It's just that maybe some people tend to lean much more towards one end than the other.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I read large, or most of the, um, the highlights from the comment section,
which we'll just link to in this one.
There's not, I think much time to go into it.
But it is, it is a nice, if this is what all, you know, engaging for you, the
highlights in the comment section is a nice conversation to have, uh, I guess,
to read the conversation of and, and see some factual back and forth on that.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
Um, I mean, to spice thing or to lighten things up, we could go on to
user comments, user feedback.
Unless you had any final thoughts or anything.
Uh, I kind of just wanted to liken this, I think, to the, what was it?
Bayseans versus barbarians, where I feel like ideally, uh, you do try to rationally
debate until you reach a point where it's like, okay, it's time to go to war.
And then you switch to the conflict theory, but like, you've made the choice.
You're, you're a barbarian now, cause that's the best strategy.
And then hopefully after the fact, you can switch back.
I wonder if that's the goal of a conflict theorist is like, once this is done,
the war is over, then we can have the conversation again.
I don't think we have that level of technology.
I think it's a much deeper seated kind of personal thing, which
takes either many years to change and work out.
Like, I don't, I don't think that there would be like a revolution and then
afterwards they wouldn't be conflict theorists anymore, which is also generally
what we see.
There's, you know, the French revolution and now the conflict theorists are in
power, but now there's, you know, different people that are the
enemy of the people.
So you start guillotining people and it spirals because it takes a long
time to get out of conflict theory mindset.
And if the conflict theory people take power, they're going to not have that
time before they start seeing more enemies.
You can't solve everything by defeating enemies.
Eventually you have to like create scientific inventions and cure diseases
and like do other things than have fights.
You can't solve a lot of things with fights.
I mean, the same thing happened in Russia, right?
I'm installing rose to power.
I don't know.
I don't know as much about the Russian revolutions.
Yeah, not a political scientist over here.
But I mean, that's probably the way it went, like with everything, right?
You, you, you don't come to power.
I'm like, all right, cool.
Now, and now that I've got this power, you guys all need it too, because
that's the way the things will go forward.
It's like, no, no, now that I've got it, we're safe when now I can keep us safe.
The American Revolution was really remarkable.
Yeah, it seems pretty rarely that there's a, there's some kind of uprising and
they've got this like very charismatic leader or a group of charismatic
leaders that end up taking power, who actually have these ideals that they
really believe in and try to push more often.
It seems like some military who takes power or some dictator, things
end up much worse and naturally as bad as they were.
Yeah, getting an American education and public school.
That's the American Revolution is the one that I'm most familiar with.
And that is what happened basically.
There were, there were people who put the idea.
It's like, what if we just like kind of put in like new kings and stuff?
And that was shot down.
It's like, no, we got away.
