That's why this is, that's why this is a hard thing to solve.
Right?
That's why politics is different.
And so we solved it.
Like just knocking, just knocking this down, like knocking the system
down doesn't make things better.
It might keep the police from hassling you for using drugs or something
because there's no police force anymore.
But like it doesn't, you know, the, the infrastructure of the state is gone
and everyone depends on it.
And so like to put it untargetedly, you know, we let dumb people vote
because it's the best system that we have to give everyone the same voice.
And the, if the, I can't think of, and it's not just me, I'm sure people have
tried and I haven't tried very hard, but like there's, it's hard to think
of a better system that isn't easily manipulatable that no, no, these
people's votes count for 500,000 and yours counts for one, right?
Um, other than, you know, buying a lot of ads and convincing people on TV or
something, um, or Twitter bots or whatever you can afford to do to pump
your message out there.
But giving everyone the same amount of voting power keeps that in, is ideally
to keep that in check rather than just say, no, you know what?
We've determined somehow we, not you, because you didn't get to vote.
We've determined where smart enough to vote.
And that's why we get to vote and not you, right?
It, you know, it's like, no, no, because we're, uh, I'm trying to think
of just some stupid metrics.
Like, no, no, if I earn this much money that I'm allowed to, I'm allowed to vote,
right?
Or if I own land or, you know, whatever.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
So all those solutions of only letting some people vote all sound terrible.
Yeah.
They always get abused.
Maybe the key here is that voting is a bad idea.
Ah, we got to install a benevolent overlord.
Right.
I vote for me.
Or, or.
Or, you know, just a random number generator.
Okay.
Yeah.
Or anarchy.
Yeah.
I'm also bats.
Whoever bats the best.
I, I'm also slightly less, um, convinced about the whole money can buy elections
thing anymore as, as far as I can tell, money doesn't really do much of anything
except show who's willing to spend the most.
It feels more like a tax on people with a lot of money.
They, they use their money to fund.
They use their money to fund our entertainment by buying a lot of, by
buying a lot of ads that do nothing every four years.
And I'm like, I'm okay with that.
Well, what about the last election?
I mean, the last election was influenced a lot, I guess, by Russian, but Russian
bots and things, increasing social strife, which cost them almost nothing.
And was really, I want to do an episode on this, like in the next two or three episodes,
this, uh, this book I'm reading called white shift, but was much more a referendum
on culture and, uh, people who feel that the culture is changing in ways they do
not like, and it was more of a backlash.
I mean, yeah, that's, I think part of it.
But I mean, like you said, the rest, did anyone buy the last election?
I think the, I mean, the bots weren't doing it for free, right?
Well, I mean, sure, the people in Russia were being paid by the government, but
it didn't cost them a lot.
No, but it was like peanuts compared to what our super PACs put on the TV.
That's, that's true.
I think, you know, commercial time probably costs more than the average,
the average, uh, bought salary, but it's, it's, it's one of those things.
Like if it wasn't necessarily money, it was power that bought it then, right?
Sure, but that's a different thing.
Well, it's, you can still leverage it in the, in this sense, like, I'm not a
political theorist if that's not super clear at this point, but you get
a large amount of political power by that, by having large amounts of money.
Yeah, the two tend to be correlated.
The thing that really, the one good thing about the last election in my opinion
was that it showed that our democracy is still, um, not completely controlled
by entrenched elite powers because the elite powers would have never let that
happen and they tried not to let it happen.
And the fact that a populist uprising was able to install their own leader
as the president, I'm like, okay, that, that shows me that at least our
government isn't completely in the puppet strings of elite masters when
you can fucking throw a Molotov cocktail into it and have this effect for four years,
which is shitty.
I'm, I'm not happy that a Molotov cocktail landed in my country.
But, uh, yeah, chaos, president.
Yeah, exactly.
But the fact that the elites were unable to keep them out, I think means that
we still are at least somewhat on the democratic side of democracy.
I don't know.
I think it kind of proves the opposite.
Like nobody wanted this person to be president and he's president.
Well, nobody in power wanted him to be the president.
Nobody, nobody in power here.
It means that like that, that power bought the election, not, not the people, right?
No, I think it's the opposite.
The powerful didn't want him and yet he got in anyway, because he got in out of the
populace.
The people to wield power.
I'm talking the Kremlin, the people that employed the, the, the misinformation
farm that, that convinced people to vote for him.
I don't think the Kremlin has that much power.
The Kremlin was here to like, enrage people and stoke passions, but.
They stirred shit up, but the shit was already stirred beforehand.
Yeah.
I mean, it was ultimately the people voting with ballots that decided who,
who was the president.
Sort of despite the fact that he lost the popular, that's always my
complaints about it.
And it's like, yeah, except they didn't, I, I, I mean, so you still have the,
the, again, the rich and powerful conflict theorist version of it.
It's like, no, yeah, it doesn't matter.
Our votes don't even fucking matter.
We can be, we can win by hundreds of thousands and our, and our candidate still
loses because they've gerrymandered the fuck out of, out of every area that they
can, right?
Yeah, but even with all the gerrymandering to control shit, they
still lost control of it a few years ago.
I mean, the people kind of use that thing against them, right?
Well, which people know the people that voted for Trump.
I guess.
Yeah.
I think.
Yeah, there's a whole thing.
So number seven, number seven.
And I think it's you, Stephen, or.
Oh, no, maybe it is me.
Yeah, that's right.
All right.
Mistake theorists think revolution is stupid.
After the proletariat obscures power, they're still faced with the same set of
policy problems we have today with no additional options.
Conflict theorists think technocr- excuse me.
Conflict theorists think, think a technocracy, technocracy?
Technocracies, technocracy.
That doesn't sound like a word.
Conflict theorists think a technocracy is stupid.
Whatever the right policy package is, the powerful will never let anyone implement it.
The only, the only way around this is to organize the powerless to defeat the
powerful by force.
And that's sort of, you know, like I'm saying, you can get together and vote all
you want, but it's like, no, we're just not going to do what you say.
Or, you know, well, yeah, technically they won.
But because of the way that we, not you have drawn the lines, they, they lost.
So that.
That's, that's literally why the Democratic Party has super delegates.
Because in 68, I think it was populist got swept into power because they just
had, you know, the, the open, open voting or whatever it was.
And, uh, lost terribly and was not at all who the elites wanted in there.
And so they're like, all right, from now on, like 40% of our votes are going
to be these super delegates who are delegated beforehand by the powerful,
you know, forces in our party.
And that's why that's there to overrule the, the rule of the will of the people.
And the Republican Party didn't have super delegates, which is why they got hijacked.
So I think, I think they're definitely trying to, uh, to never let anyone
implement something that isn't right for them.
They just didn't manage to do it.
I can.
But I do think revolution is stupid.
I used to think revolution was awesome.
I think there's a point where you can argue that things are so bad that
a revolution is probably what we need.
Yes.
I think it rarely is that bad.
Um, but definitely like most of the revolutions in history kind of make
sense, considering the context that they started in.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, the reason I was all pro revolution when I was a teenager, looking
back on it now, uh, this is obviously not what I would have said when I was a
teenager is because as a teenager, I don't have jack shit.
I'm in a society where I get no respect.
No one likes me.
There's, I have, I have literally nothing to lose except my own life.
And, you know, I'm a teenager, so I don't care that much about that.
You know, you're mortal.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I didn't think I was immortal.
I just didn't care that much.
Right.
Yeah.
Like either I win and I get the society I want or I die, which is probably not
any worse than being in this shit ass slavery society we live in anyway.
And, uh, now that I'm older and, uh, I actually have a few things to lose.
I'm like, you remember what happened last time there was a revolution, right?
All the, all the mass starvation and death and everything.
I mean, not in this country.
We got pretty lucky with our revolution.
No, it was pretty bad actually.
Oh, was it?
Well, um, I think the civil war was pretty bad.
The civil war was actually much worse, but the word war is not great.
No.
I think the big thing the revolution had going for it is that they already had a
powerful group of elites that ruled the country more or less by fiat and just
needed to kick out the occupiers.
And don't get it wrong.
My, my defenses on all of these at the conflict there, it's just because I,
I am really in that camp.
What I am, I think is I, I can very much sympathize with like the, like, no,
