We were trying to get away from that shit.
And granted, it took a while before everyone got to vote.
But that was, I think the goal, you know, and if it wasn't, if it wasn't
the explicit goal in the minds of the founders, it was the coherent
extrapolated volition of what they wanted, you know, this, this was where
they wanted to want to be, even if they didn't know they wanted to be there yet.
I think it was specifically not their goal to give everyone the vote.
They, they were trying to push people out to the West to everybody
doesn't have the vote still.
So they still got what they wanted.
Wait, do we have disenfranchised classes?
I guess we have felons, convicts and illegal immigrants.
Well, Robert, they're not citizens.
Well, that's, that's either other classes of people that don't get to vote.
I mean, one might argue black people, children, they get to vote, but.
Oh, but it's suppressed.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
If you, if you jaymander the fuck out of a black neighbor or a black town
and then close the only DMV where they need to, the new registration is to vote.
Yeah.
So it, but the idea, they're not legally barred.
They are systematically barred by assholes, but the goal is like, no,
your vote still counts, at least in the minds, at least according to the system,
at least in the ideals of the system, which is a cool system to set up.
So, yeah, I mean, that's, that's one thing that, yeah, I mean, I'm not one
of those, you know, flag loving patriots, but I'm also not on the, on the camp of
like, no, America's the worst.
And I'm like, I get it.
Like I got a very rosy education and I know that America has done a lot of
terrible shit, but the, like you said, the, the founding of the country was a
really cool thing that happened.
The fact that the constitution was written in a way that like, no, no, let's leave
in caveats on how to actually amend this thing.
Cause we don't know everything.
That was a really cool idea.
And I don't think a lot of like drafts for like, this is how we're going to
run things, have that caveat in it.
Um, but that was written into the, into the, into the, the law.
So don't get me wrong.
The, you know, I'm not, again, not worshiping the founders.
They made lots of mistakes.
They were, a lot of them were dumb, dumb, they were all dumb people.
They didn't know what Germans were, but you know, in the, in the sense that,
you know, they somehow pulled this thing off without all the, without
most of the really horrible things that usually come with it.
One civil war, but yeah, but no, it was a cool thing.
So, but the man is to delay that civil war for about 80 years.
That's something.
That's pretty dope.
All right.
Let's, uh, let's lighten the mood here.
Okay.
He's got a good user feedback.
Uh, let me scroll down here.
This one came from our discord.
Uh, this was after we talked about my crazy neuroses that maybe I'm in a simulation
and it might be Jesus or Hitler later on.
Uh, please choose Jesus.
Right.
Uh, why we Kerr asked, isn't this, isn't the simulation argument basically
a Russell's teapot?
Like what evap, elevates it from every other single hypothesis about the nature
of reality?
What makes it more worthy of privilege?
Oh, what makes it worthy of privilege more than saying we live in the matrix
or solipsism?
If we assume there's another real reality superseding this one, then how could
we possibly be assigned any probability to what it might look like?
Before we answer that, this was a fun conversation that I actually got to
watch happen and to watch these conversations happen is the joy of
discord.
So if you like these things and want to engage them in real time or even just
read about them, you know, after the facts and your lunch break or something,
that's what I usually do.
Check it out.
It's a lot of fun.
Yeah.
I'm having, I didn't not anticipate having fun at the discord, but I'm having
more fun than I thought I would.
So it's, it's cool.
I told the people who both listened to the show and are on the discord, I read
probably at least on the, some of the threads that I read, at least half the
stuff and I enjoy reading a lot of the stuff that I don't say anything about.
So yeah, I'm totally lurking the discord.
Lurking is the word I was looking for.
Perfect.
Every now and then I try to chime in, but yeah.
Yeah.
I, I have times where like, I'll, I'll say, I'll go to chime in something.
I'm like, no, I don't have time to like commit to this.
Like keep the conversation going.
Cause I gotta get back to work.
So that looks fun.
Have fun.
Yeah.
Anyway.
So yeah, why, what, what, what, what privileges the, the simulation hypothesis
over any other.
So partly the fact that it is not physically impossible from what we know of physics,
but also just that in terms of numbers, solipsism is basically the idea that I may
be the only thing that is actually conscious that actually exists in the
universe, right?
And there's only one way for that to actually be the case.
If you actually are the only conscious thing in the universe, that's a unique
condition, whereas, uh, if there is any possibility of there being simulations in
the far future, and if we get to the far future, there will probably be lots of
simulations.
So in terms of numbers, that is much more likely, uh, in my opinion.
Fair enough.
But, um, as to what you can infer about actual physical reality, if we're in a
simulation, yeah, probably nothing, the real reality could be almost anything.
It sure doesn't feel purposeful.
Oh, this reality mean?
Yeah.
I mean, that's my argument against, well, you know, one of many arguments against
like theism, like the, if you look at the universe, does it look like it was designed
for any purpose?
No, it looks pretty random.
You could maybe say that somebody's just creating a bunch of random simulations to
see what happens, like playing spore or whatever, but like,
I heard a decent argument that the universe seems to be a fine tune to
maximize the amount of black holes.
Yeah, somebody really likes black holes.
Yeah, I don't know.
Um, I just don't know how I could know.
And I don't see a lot of evidence for it.
Uh, I do think that you do make a slightly more compelling argument for why it's not
a Russell's teapot there, but, uh, I don't worry.
I don't stay up late worrying about it myself.
Yeah, you guys are as real as I really need you to be.
Like I'm, I'm pretty sure you're as real as I am.
And that's good enough for me to like try and, you know, a, enjoy a friendship and
be like, be a good person.
So yeah, that's my, so yeah, it's, it's, there's not much more reason to think
this is real than solipsism.
I just reject solipsism much more hard than I do the simulation argument, but
that, that is just me.
Yeah.
I mean, the solipsism thing is, I don't, I don't, I'd like to hear somebody
steal man that, I guess, because from what I can see, there seems to be a lot of
other intelligent creatures that experience sentience.
Like I see evidence for this.
Unless like any, like, what are you going to say?
I think solipsism basically comes down to that you can literally not trust any
of your senses for anything.
So the only thing you can really know is that you exist.
Cause any of your senses can be fooled in any number of ways.
So, uh, good luck thinking that reality is real.
Fucking Nihilist, man.
Fucking solipsists.
Nihilists are different.
I had, I had to inject a big Lebowski thing to.
I was also thinking of big Lebowski.
To insert this unnecessary tangent in that I'm being, uh, my wedding is being
officiated by an ordained minister of the church of the dude, which it takes 90,
what, 30 seconds to officiate yourself on your phone.
And you said there's like 250,000 of them now?
I think 450,000.
450,000.
Nice.
On their website.
I think Wikipedia had a smaller number, but it doesn't matter.
My aunt, uh, officiated herself in the church of the dude to officiate our wedding.
So, excellent.
Yeah.
Should we go on?
Yeah.
I think this one actually somewhat relates to what we were just talking about.
Uh, Rom, Romkansk also from the discord says, uh, when we talked about the,
are your enemies mutants, uh, the thing that was confusing to me ever since I saw
this post first is that evil is very imprecise term.
That means different things to different people in different situations.
The example with nine 11 is pretty clear.
I can understand that the terrorists believe themselves to be good guys,
but I have many other examples about people.
I'm much more, I'm much more likely to meet in real life.
They're muggers, rapists, and just people who enjoy inflicting violence on those
weaker than themselves.
It's tough imagining some kind of worldview where they can justify that.
And even if they can, and probably do my imagination just isn't good enough.
It simply means my values are incompatible with theirs.
Doesn't it mean that they are evil from my point of view?
Yeah, I guess I don't know what, um, like, unless you're trying to salvage the word
evil, and I guess that's a good shorthand for like the people that I
necessarily can't cooperate with.
That sounds sounds like a good shorthand.
I think muggers for me are the easiest ones to justify there.
Like, you know, if you're the, the mugger robbing the, uh, the wanes coming out of
the opera, the Bruce Bruce Wayne's parents, like you're mugging them because
they're rich people who go to the opera and you're probably like, you know, have
some story in your head where it's like, you know, justifies it.
Yeah, it justifies it.
You could even be for really good reasons.
Like that pearl necklace could feed my family for six months.
It's like fucking give me that thing.
Or I could even imagine like I am not a vegetarian.
Uh, I wish I was, uh, people who commit rape or murder just don't see other
people as people.
