Anyways, yeah, uh, yeah, but no, the, the, the, the sweetest thing I've ever done, I've
Yeah, uh, yeah, but no, the, the, the sweetest discord going. Yes. And in the discord, like some people want to start a book club, which is cool.
I like book clubs. I go to a book club myself, right? And apparently they're going to be alternating fiction and nonfiction and stuff.
And there was a big old vote as to what the first book would be. And like, I mean, I don't know. I was kind of hopeful that at some point, somebody would be like, Hey, we should read.
Let's write what, what lies dreaming. But it was the very first book picked. And I was like, Holy shit.
Out of like eight on the list at one enormously.
Yeah. So I guess starting when this episode airs is when the book club begins. So go to our discord if you want to be in on that. And they're starting with the first four or five chapters.
And then I don't know how frequently they'll be discussing and reading and stuff. But yeah, that's the first one. There's a special channel for it in the discord, if you're into that sort of thing.
Yeah, online book club sounds like much more my vibe too. I think it encouraged me to read more like dedicate actual like, that's probably part of the reason that you do a book club that like it actually forces you to read stuff.
And like the social commitment, right, rather than just like a personal commitment to finish a boring book.
Yeah, well, I mean, if it's a boring book, I don't finish it even if it's for book club. Well, that's not entirely true. I'll sometimes hate read a book.
So I can talk about it in book club.
I hate reading books is pretty fun sometimes. It's what it's not being fun for me for doing it solo but doing it when I know I'm going to talk about it. Like the reason I go to book club is because I really love reading.
But then when you're done reading, you have like this whole thing you've gone through, and you can't talk about it with anyone else because no one else has gone through. I think you can try but like you could just bore the shit out of one of your friends like hey, let me tell you about this fun book I read.
Okay, so in chapter one, there's this guy. And they're like, uh huh.
That's why I think that's why popularity is so big because you can talk about other things. That's like why when the Harry Potter train gets rolling like everyone gets on higher pot because you can actually talk about it and the Marvel Universe stuff.
Once you know other people are doing the same thing, you can share the experience. And so yeah, the book club is like, I read a lot more books than people then get popular in a year, you know.
And so having this other dedicated core people that will read the same books and we can all talk about it afterwards with this really cool.
So there are like five things that I want to touch on. I'll try and be as fast as possible. And I'll probably forget at least one or two. So one, this is the fastest and least, least relevant.
Like how, you know, when things are popular, you want to talk about them. So Netflix, when they do a series, they do all the episodes at once, which means go home and watch all of Stranger Things in one weekend so you can talk about it with your co-workers on Monday.
I can't either.
Many people can. And so that's hard for that. So Disney, when their thing launches in November, they're doing episodic weekly releases for their original content.
Thank God. I really think Netflix should go to that too.
They hopefully need to make some changes. They're losing money.
You know, because I mean, Binging was really big when it was introduced, but now it's like people want more content every weekend because they've gone through all of your season eight or season whatever in a more come out of a few hours.
Yeah. I think Netflix has been down in profits and new customers for the last quarter or two. So they're going to be updating their model if they want to stay in business.
And there's like actual healthy competition now, right? So that's fun.
Reading things and boring people by talking about them when they haven't read it yet.
So I'm going to do that to you two and to the listeners.
Oh God, real time again.
I finished Draco Malfoy in the practice of rationality, which I think I plugged. If I didn't, I meant to believe you did.
So it was fun. I enjoyed the whole thing. I do recommend reading it, although I am not as like vehement to my recommendation as I was in the first third of it.
It changes kind of what it seemed like it was going to do a bit.
And then disappointing.
It is. And he opens the book with like, you know, heads up people complained about the ending and like, how can they complain? This is going to be great. I'm loving it.
And this isn't a spoiler, but the author said that it was a deliberate artistic choice to make the reader feel as ambushed as the characters because the end is confusing.
There's this complex plot that comes together and you're like, what the fuck is happening? And he's like, I wanted you to feel that way too.
And I'm like, okay, well, he succeeded.
So there's that. And then there's a semi satisfying three chapter epilogue that he apparently released like a year later.
But since this was three years ago, it was all at once for me.
So I do recommend Draco Malfoy in the practice of rationality. It picks up at year two.
And it's just a continuation thick of methods of rationality. It's not another diversion of this and that.
So let's see a few other things you mentioned.
Oh, I didn't mention that apparently some of the people in the discord don't like, I mean, they do audio books.
Like most people do, especially people who listen to podcasts, because this is our preferred medium.
And there's a bunch of people who are just like, or at least one person might be expanding out.
It was like, sure, I'll read this into a microphone and upload it.
So yeah, if you wanted what lies dreaming in audio form, I guess you can get it on the discord.
And I'll probably be putting it up at my website as well so people can get it there.
Oh, sweet.
One chapter at a time. Yeah, I think they've recorded the first four chapters now.
Yeah.
The fifth one is coming up.
Cool.
Where are you going?
Yeah, I believe so.
I mean, that part's going in episode two though, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, all right. So this is it. We're in it.
Oh, we're in it.
Welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy. I'm Niasz Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber.
I'm Jess Dickie.
And guess what we're talking about today?
No, you guess.
Goddamn it.
Wait, I'm not sure what we're going to talk about again.
Leave a long pause so the listeners can guess amongst themselves as to what today's topic is.
That'd be really dumb.
Topics can be almost anything.
Yeah.
But what I was trying to do is set up a conflict and then a mistake where one of us got it wrong.
And all right, sorry.
So what we're talking about today is Scott Alexander's conflict theory versus mistake theory post.
And I feel kind of guilty about doing this.
It feels like we're leaning on Scott a little too hard because just like three episodes ago,
we talked about one of his posts too, but this one is like a year, a year and a half old now.
And we kept meaning to get to it and we never quite did.
And it's just really good.
So it was important to cover it at some point.
It's been on the list for a while.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it was fun.
What I liked about it, well, we'll talk about it as we go through it, but like the general overview is that he paints caricatures of both sides.
And it's fun because neither of them are obviously the wrong one.
And if I mean, at least when I was reading it, I found myself liking parts of both of them.
Right.
And there was one that I definitely liked a lot more, but I did see the other side as well.
Yeah.
And this isn't to trip off David Spearman's joke about like, well, on Mondays, Mondays and Fridays, I'm an anarchist.
And on the other two, I'm this.
But for me, it's like every five seconds, I can totally see, you know, in half my moods, I'm a mistake theorist, half of mine, I'm a conflict theorist.
And in half of them, I think that that dichotomy is missing part of the point.
So we'll get into that.
Most people are probably somewhere along a spectrum of mistaken conflict.
Do you see that post about the bisexual lady who was like bisexual in the fact that she was male attracted January through June and female July through December?
I've never seen that post.
It was really cool.
Apparently this girl asked her out and she was like, no, I'm bisexual.
And she's like, that's okay.
She's like, no, you don't understand.
Come back in July.
And she did.
And then she dated her for six months and she was like, all right, it's January.
I'm sorry.
We got to break up, but we can get together again in July.
I think a really stupid rule to impose on yourself.
I don't know if it's a rule or maybe that like actually is her attraction pattern.
Attraction patterns are weird.
I'm also bisexual and I've gone through periods of being like, I think I'm actually straight.
And then like two years later, oh man, I'm actually gay.
It's like not 50.
I don't know.
I think the idea a lot of people have of buys just like you're just about like, you know, attracted dog guys and girls equally in the same amount all the time.
It fluctuates.
Well, I didn't, I certainly agree that it fluctuates, but I, and it can be, you know, no, I'm, I'm mostly straight or I'm partly whatever.
But like to say that it, no, July 1st is when my clock shifts.
I don't think that your body doesn't know what month it is.
Right.
That's definitely self-imposed, but I thought it was kind of cool.
It keeps you from getting stuck in a relationship you may not necessarily want.
It also keeps you from sticking in one that you might want.
Yeah.
But if you want it, then you can come back to it again in six months.
Yeah.
Something they're willing to wait around for you.
Oh, so this was this person's like they were doing this intentionally.
Yeah.
Not, uh-huh.
Yeah.
That's, that's a thing.
I mean, I assume it was intentional because again, your, your sexuality doesn't shift on a dime on June 30th, midnight.
Yeah.
You don't wake up suddenly and be like, Oh, this person next to me repulses me.
Like, or I'm not interested in them.
Right.
It could be more like of a sine wave and you're like, all right, I know it about the time summer starts.
I don't want to start being attracted the other way.
So I'll just set this cut off for myself.
Oh, then that actually makes more sense if you're thinking like wardrobe wise, right?
My winter clothes are much nicer than my summer clothes.
And so if she's attracted to guys in the summer, in the winter, that makes more sense to me.
Like a little more people have a little, you know, facial hair to stay warm and, you know, heavy, like awesome coats.
And then of course, tight clothes and bikini weather in the winter in the summer.
That's, that's, you know, you can more enjoy the female form that time of year.
Gotcha.
But I had not considered that.
That's the only way this makes sense to me.
I got it.
I mean, follow me and do whatever you want.
I'm not shitting on it.
It's just like, I don't, I don't think it makes sense to have that rule imposed for yourself if like it doesn't actually make you happy.
I'll link the Tumblr post.
It was really cool.
There were jokes about Persephone from the old Greek artist, Greek myths.
Okay.
She was the one that had to go down with Hades for six months out of every year.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah.
It's been a long time since my Greek mythology classes in high school.
So anyway, mistake theory, conflict theory.
Wow.
We got off a topic right away.
That's all right.
We'll get it out of the way early.
Do either of you want to jump into this or should I?
Um, let's see.
Let's do like a brief overview of what they both are.
Yeah.
I would say mistake theory is the kind of, the kind of a caricatrized version that Scott describes is this kind of Vulcan who is just trying to find the best solution for the state.
Or I guess it could be whatever other kind of conflict they're trying to manage.
So they're just weighing the options.
They're doing the math.
They're being utilitarian about it.
There's obviously a right answer and we just have to find it.
Yeah.
And there's like open and honest communication amongst all people.
And it's not that one side is bad and they're doing things for bad evil reasons.
Just like they have an idea about how things should be.
You have an idea and you're all going to get together and try to find the best idea.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think this makes more sense in the context that it focuses on of like political problems or like, you know, state solutions.
I don't know if this would make, although they talk, I think he makes an example of like, you know, arguing with your boss.
Yeah.
So, you know, that's also a politic situation kind of.
I have something to say about that a little later, but let's do, uh, does somebody want to tackle what they think conflict theory is?
Yeah. Conflict theory, I thought was much more of the, the more traditional narrative of, uh, well, I always think of Marx with the class conflicts,
but the idea that there's two different people with, uh, or two different groups of people with different goals and they are mutually incompatible.
And there can only be conflict.
The only way to resolve this is by one group dominating the other.
And it's not like that there is a mistake that someone thinks that this policy will help the nation, but they're just wrong about that.
It's that this other person wants this thing that will help them and will hurt me.
And there's no way to resolve that aside from forcing them to instead implement this thing, which will help me and hurt them.
Which is, you know, the traditional proletariat versus, uh, bourgeoisie proletariat versus capitalist sort of conflict.
There's also, I think the, the kind of high level view that like the mistake theorist thinks that the conflict theorist is just, you know, making a mistake.
Right? Like not only you're actually, you're kind of framing this wrong.
Yeah. And if you could just explain it to them, then they'd understand.
Right. And the conflict theorist, theorist says, no, you don't get it. And this isn't about like them not understanding it.
