They were literally expecting to die if they reached the age of 30 without
finding someone to feed off of.
Or are they just saying that?
I don't know.
It's such a weird belief.
Right.
It's hard to, maybe even they don't know, right?
Yeah.
Um, like I had dumb thoughts when I, like when I was a kid and, you know,
when make believe was really easy, but I can't imagine what it would be like.
I don't know, at the age of like driving a car and having a job where like I
still was able to entertain stuff that seriously.
Yeah.
I, but I'm trying to think of that's the thing.
Like she didn't, you, you could tell us, you didn't actually believe it.
She was just saying that this is what she believed.
I'm trying to think of a, of something that outlandish I've ever seen in real life.
I've definitely seen, um, beliefs as attire.
And then like the next one is like a pause lights, right?
But that's next episode.
I've, what I have seen, no, it's a different one.
Bleed, plus lights comes later.
Uh, what I have seen is since I've, you know, met some Satanists and gone to
a satanic mass, uh, they're for the most part atheists, right?
Or, or at least the ones I met, atheists, agnostics, people who are like,
don't really believe in any of this stuff, but they say they believe it.
They're kind of doing that more as a joke.
Like, I mean, these people were, it's, it was a weird sort of joke where
it's kind of a joke, but it's kind of not.
Like they know it's not real, real and it's sort of tongue in cheek.
But on the other hand, they're also like, but this is still my religion.
I've never been to a satanic temple, but I imagine that it would also
attract the real Satanists if any actually exist.
I don't think any actually exist.
And also the satanic temple was a, you know, the little community room
that they rented out once a week.
They brought in folding chairs and that stuff.
Yeah.
There's an episode of, uh, there was no black altar.
There's an episode of Silicon Valley where one of the characters is a
Satanist and they just, they're just at one of the masses and stuff.
And like there's a person sitting there naked with a goat head on.
And then like at the end, it's like, okay, guys, that was a lot of fun.
Well, our catered meal today, or our meal today is Chick-fil-A.
I know the whole gay marriage thing.
And don't forget the parking is limited for two hours.
So like, it was similar to that.
Yeah.
I mean, the ritual involved a naked person and I'm picturing that I'm assuming
that the writers had somebody go to one of these things or, you know,
one of them actually was a regular attendee or something.
Cause it seemed like just too spot on.
But I, yeah, maybe that wouldn't attract a real Satanist.
There's got to be somebody out there.
Like if there's people out there who, you know, believe in paganism or who,
you know, I, I have people who, who overtly claim to believe like a Norse
mythology.
Me too.
And so like,
They can't literally believe that.
There's just no way.
I feel that way about all religious people.
And yet I'm willing to give like the Christians.
I'll say, okay, they actually, they say they actually believe it.
I'm willing to give the Christians the benefit of that because they were
racing it from childhood and had it like drilled into them.
Right.
Yeah.
You don't discover a religion as an adult and be like, oh, that's,
that makes sense to me.
Right.
That said, I had another thing.
I forget who I was, who we're going back and forth with about, um, like,
whether or not religious people actually leave abortion is like murder.
Like we use murder in real contexts.
Um, in the, my, I, oh, you know what, I'll, I'll get the data later, but I,
since I've already started, I'll just finish the number of people who claim
to who claim to be like, who claim to believe that the Bible is the literal
word of God, I'm pretty sure is lower than number of people who've actually
read the Bible.
And like, oh yeah, no, that's, that's of course a divinely inspired book.
It's written by the creator of the universe.
Oh, I haven't read it.
It's kind of, it's kind of a lot of boring, you know, so like, if you really
believe that the, that the creative universe, you know, was, if not a
published author, a, a ghostwriter or how to ghostwriter for his book, you
would, you would slog through it, right?
Yeah.
But you can't, you can't say that you believe that and you can't actually
believe that and like not trouble yourself to read this book.
Right.
I would, I would, I submit.
I, I don't think that.
Well, you think people can't be lazy?
I, if you thought this was pretty straight, it gave me the cliff notes.
If you think this is the most important thing in the universe, like if, if I
build, I don't know, maybe I'm, maybe I'm modeling the most important thing of
the universe was understanding really high level mathematics.
Would that, would you be able to learn those things?
If it was as easy to do as reading the Bible, then yes.
For some people, yeah, for some people reading the Bible is as hard as doing
high level mathematics.
I think maybe high level mathematics is easy for you then.
Like, no, no, it's not easy at all.
I'm just saying some people have a really hard time reading.
If you're literate, you can get through it.
It sucks, but not everyone is, I'm, I think, I'm, I'm contesting the analogy,
not saying that it doesn't make sense.
I'm sure you could read the words, but you would probably think I'm too dumb to
understand these because they can't really mean what they're saying.
Right.
Which is the problem.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's, that's, that puts a good point on it.
I'm willing to, to concede the point there to like come back with numbers.
Yeah.
So someone reading who doesn't have like a world class education sees that God
came down and was going to, God came down and met Moses at an inn and was
really pissed off at him because he didn't circumcise his son.
They'd be like, God couldn't have really met someone at an inn and been pissed off.
Let's, let's, let's, I'm reading this wrong.
The priest's got to tell me what this really means.
And, you know, I suppose I did it with other important things.
Like I haven't gone and done primary research on, you know, evolution or
anything, right?
And yet I'll take the scientists at their word for it.
Right.
And you could literally read all the evolution textbooks if you wanted to.
Yeah.
I mean, I guess at that point though, but that just because you could read the
words doesn't mean you could understand the science.
Right.
But I guess the main difference there is that I don't think that's the most
important thing in the universe.
Yeah.
Right.
But if you did think it was the most important thing in the universe, do you
think you could read the science well enough to be at scientist level?
I feel like I'd make, I feel like I'd make it a priority in my life.
Right.
Yeah.
Like I think if I really believed, and maybe I think I'm modeling like a very,
I think I'm modeling like a rationalist religious person where it's like, if I
really believe that, that the religious worldview is the, like the actual correct
way the world was, I'd be like, this is super important.
Like I'm going to theology school.
Like I need to, I need to understand this on a very important level.
This is, this is the fucking world.
Right.
Um, I guess not everyone can go to theology school.
And so the people who do go to theology tell people like, yes, this is the most
important thing in the world.
And the really important part of it is that you should have kids and, you know,
tithe to God and not kill people.
And then you're covered.
Yeah.
If you say so, Mr.
Priest, you know, right?
I mean, you can't, who do I make the checkout to?
All right, cool.
Um, all right.
So if someone tells you what the most important thing in the world is telling
you to do, if you trust them, good enough.
Yeah, I suppose so.
I, I, I suppose I'll give it some more thought.
Meanwhile, uh, onto the next one.
Yeah.
Belief as a tire.
Uh, you want to grab this one?
Yeah.
So, uh, another form of improper belief is belief as group identification as a
way of belonging.
Robin Hansen uses the excellent metaphor of wearing unusual clothing, a group
uniform, like a priest vestments or a Jewish skull cap.
And so I'll call this belief as a tire.
It is very easy for a human being to genuinely, passionately, gut level
belong to a group to cheer for their favorite sports team.
Identifying with the tribe is a very strong emotional force.
People will die for it.
And once you get people to identify with the tribe, the beliefs, which are a
tire of that tribe will be spoken with the full passion of belonging to that tribe.
So this is just where I'm sorry, go ahead.
Oh, no, you got it.
I mean, so this is just where, uh, you'll chant the party line to
signal your affiliation to the party.
Yeah.
Um, I don't think like any comical examples from real life that I've seen
this, I wanted to be applause lights when I might have told the story before.
I'm sure I have, but it was just like, it, it was like, I'm sitting there
like this, I'm watching the lights.
This is crazy.
But I mean, the primordial cow, I think is a good example of that in real life.
Yeah.
Um, I think that I would call that almost, I was thinking about this.
It's almost counter signaling in a way.
Um, I think I'm using that phrase wrong, but, uh, it seems more like what
that particular woman was trying to do by being at a science conference and
then talking about her crazy religion and kind of having everybody laugh at her
laughing at herself is to be a little bit shocking, like to, to be subversive.
