They, they understand exactly what they want and they're doing this to get there.
And the person powerful are going to keep pushing their way through or, you know, your boss is going to continue to fuck you over and he knows exactly what he's doing.
This isn't like, if they had the information that you had, or, you know, we could all agree on a solution.
If you guys are trying to do it, you're missing the point.
This is an actual fight and you're not going to talk your way out of this.
Yeah. And there's stakes, I think, is one of the, uh, if I were to be charitable to the conflict side, which I am to some extent.
I think that there is value to the argument that there are actual stakes here.
Like you can stand there and like be like, oh, you know, uh, genocide or not genocide.
Well, let's, uh, let's really discuss this for the human race overall.
So, and I think, uh, personally, the feeling that I get from everyone I know and everything I've read is that rationalists are very much on the mistake side of things that they think there is a optimal solution.
If we could just find it and implement it and that, uh, it's better to do that than do violent things.
But is that the feeling you guys got?
If that wasn't the intended reading of it, then I'm not sure what, what it was. Yeah.
I mean, that's the, there aren't, in my understanding, a lot of pockets of rationality that are like pro, you know, violent revolution, right?
I don't know about violent revolution. I know there's a few people in the rationalist community that self identify as conflict theorists.
Sure. And there's some, I don't find anarchists and stuff like that too.
But I think, um, the, maybe it's just the, the, the insight that we wouldn't win a con, a physical conflict.
There aren't enough of us and many of us don't want to fight people.
So I would also really hope that even if we, you know, managed to get AI with killing murder bots on our side, that we would still stick with mistake theory.
Like our ideal is that we would still want to convince people rather than being like, oh, we're more powerful now.
Let's impose our ideas.
We had our robots hold them down and fix their brains for them, right?
Well, no, that's the thing. Like I, for a long time, uh, I was very much a liberal and big part of that was that the liberals were on the side of free speech, that, you know, anyone can say anything, no matter how offensive it is, how much the, the other people might consider it obscene, because people can say whatever they want.
I don't remember when that was the liberal position.
It was when I was a kid and it was, this was the 80s when conservatism was really big and everyone was straight laced in the moral majority had political power.
And then yeah, like the reverse happened, the liberals got a lot more power and now all of a sudden they were the ones being like, yeah, I'm not down with this whole free speech thing.
There's some speech that just should not be allowed because it is harmful for society.
And now the right was the one saying everyone should have free speech.
I'm like, you motherfuckers. Well, just 20 years ago, you were the one saying that free speech is, you know, this plague on society that will bring us all down.
And so now I just kind of hate them both for being like, we're for free speech when we are the weak people who need it to protect our speech.
But, uh, once we get power, we're not.
I mean, I think that's just how power goes.
But to be fair, the conservative side isn't pro-free speech in every aspect, right? They prefer blasphemy laws and, you know, you can't, you can't tarnish the name of the president or something.
I think the only time they're pro-free speech is when they're being censored.
I think what's going to change is that the left has now some positions where, or some people have some positions where they're like, no, free speech makes sense except for these things.
And now that they're putting any marks at all on free speech, now it's not that the move has shifted to the left of being anti-free speech.
It's just like now they're actually raising some things up.
Yeah, but I mean, the right before was like, yeah, we're all for pro-free speech except for this awful pornography thing that is turning our children into degenerates.
Or, you know, sex education or telling them that gay people are real or like that abortion is an option or that...
Atheism.
Yeah.
Comparative religion classes.
And they still want all those things.
Yeah, the only time someone is for censorship is when they think that the stuff needs to be censored because it is harmful for society, right?
Right.
Yeah.
But I was saying, you made it sound like they'd switched sides, like they had switched their stance on free speech.
I'm like, no, the conservative side is still against free speech, but just all the things that they still have been against in the past.
Right.
But now they are vocally for, oh man, you're suppressing free speech, man.
Whereas before it was the opposite.
What about the grey tribe or the intellectual dark web people?
I feel like they genuinely value free speech.
Yeah.
I think they're a tiny minority, but I love the fact that they actually do seem to care about actual free speech.
Yeah.
Like, I like the fact that I think right up until just a few months ago, the ACLU was willing to defend anyone on free speech rights no matter, you know, what they were doing,
was Larry Flint with, with, um, huss, not hustler.
Was it hustler?
I think it was hustler, the big really bad porn mag from back in the days when, you know, showing your ankles was scandalous.
They're still around.
You know, I know, to, to the, the almost Nazi-ish people, the, I mean, they, they, they defended Fred Phelps when he was picking gay funerals.
They were like, you know what, if free speech is free speech, no matter how much we hate these people, and I really respected the hell out of that.
Yeah.
And there's just not very many people like that.
What's the sense?
Do they not do that anymore?
Uh, I heard that they recently had, they went, they dropped one of their free speech cases just because they were getting so much pushback from basically everyone.
And they were like, we probably won't be able to continue as an organization if we don't drop this.
We're going to lose too much.
I mean, let's be real too.
I don't imagine there's a lot of, uh, like, you know, rich conservatives donating to the ACLU, right?
So if they're going to spend all their money defending Nazis, I'm going to stop giving them my money to, you know, defend Nazis with, right?
No, I mean, they were using the money to defend anyone.
Yeah.
It's not just Nazis.
They were defending the principal.
Right.
No, I get that.
And I totally endorse that.
But as like the person who's writing a check, I'm like, okay, who are they defending now?
You know, fucking this guy.
No, forget it.
Well, then, I mean, then you didn't really believe in free speech.
That's, I guess that's fair.
If you stop writing that check.
Yeah, that's true.
Or rather, it's not true that I don't believe in free speech.
That's true that that's what someone would say.
So as it is, I don't think I've actually given money to the ACLU, like other than, you know, whatever.
They were on my yearly list.
Yeah.
Nice.
That's awesome.
I need to put together a real one right now.
It's hodgepodge.
So anyway, anyway, I pulled up like eight dichotomies that he put in, which I thought were really
interesting.
We could maybe like cover them as examples and also possibly comment on them if we feel
like it.
Cool.
Alrighty.
Well, since I started this thing, I grabbed the first one.
Make sure.
Okay.
Which, uh, I mean, for the most part, I, I am on board with one because I think that,
it's much better to have a world where we're all working together, trying to find a diagnosis.
But I also read like a lot of cyberpunk and pretty much all the fiction that you read
when you're younger is about the elites being assholes and how the people have to rise
up.
Right.
So I have a very big emotional root in that still.
Yeah.
I think it's important to differentiate between this isn't like what you want the world to
look like.
This is how the world is.
These are questions of like, this is what I want.
This is the question of like what's actually out there.
Yeah.
Is, is this a, is, does a mistake theory explain what I'm seeing or does conflict explain what
I'm seeing?
Not what I, what, not what I, not which philosophy would I like to go with, right?
And so.
I think it also determines a lot of what you see though.
Yeah.
Like recently one of the Koch brothers died and I saw a lot of people, you know, cheering
about that.
And yes, I think they've done a huge amount of harm to the earth with their, you know,
global warming isn't real bullshit.
And, and to civil society by, by like what was the, um, United.
Oh, Citizens United.
Citizens United versus the FEC where it's like, no, no, of course, you know, corporations
are people and we can give our money to put anti campaign ads, you know, right before
the debates against the politician.
We don't want to win.
Yeah.
It's like when you get to buy elections through through manipulating people because you're
rich, plus me and puts me in my, picks me, makes me ready to put on my conflict theory
hat, right?
A lot of good things that they did too, because they were, they were less socially conservative
and more along the lines of fuck the government sort of conservative.
They, they, they funded a lot of things that I actually think are good things.
They, they were very, uh, pro free speech.
For example,
Are you saying that they were complicated humans and not just cartoon villains?
That is unfortunately what I am forced to say.
Yeah.
They did a lot of terrible things, but they also did like some things.
I'm like, wow, that's, that's exactly what I think on that issue.
How are they on my side on this?
You know,
Because it benefits them personally too.
Uh, no, there were things that didn't benefit them personally.
Like what?
So, uh, they are in a support of same sex marriage, uh, in support of withdrawing the US military
from the Middle East and cutting defense spending in general.
Uh, they are in support of massive, uh, criminal reform where a lot of things are decriminalized
and where, uh, people are given their due process instead of being forced to plea bargain
everything.
And people aren't given excessive bail, keeping them from, you know, getting back to their
lives.
Uh, there's, I know you're probably going to be surprised by this, but, um, they are,
I assume we're going to be surprised.
I don't know.
Maybe I'm wrong about this.
God, I'm sorry.
Uh,
No, you're good.
After the first three.
Okay.
The first three did surprise the hell out of me.
They're very against, uh, business and government mixing and, uh, are trying to get subsidies
like just gone entirely.
So businesses fail or succeed based on whether they're good at the business, not at how well
they can lobby and get Congress money diverted and get taxpayer money diverted to them.
Uh, they want to get rid of all the special exceptions and tax codes that politicians
give to whoever they like best, you know, why do they lobby for senators that give them
these tax breaks and stuff?
Well, because they, they want the actual senators in place and some of the tax breaks
are things other people push, not they push.
Like you only get a choice between two senators and they have to pick which one is they think
is more on their side and in a particular seat.
I did see a tweet on Reddit that was screen capped and it was like, when a Koch brother
dies, who inherits their senators?
And then someone of course replies, Oh, they should bury them with them.
Like, you know, the pharaohs and their cats.
Nice.
And then also very much for digital free speech, like we've been, so those are all things
I'm super for.
I'm not sure stuff makes up for how much damage they will do to all the poor nations through
global climate change over the next 30 years or so, or the, you know, again, the corporations
as people thing in 2003 wasn't, I don't think that was a good move for the country.
And that doesn't seem to jam with like keeping politics or business out of politics.
But maybe in the way that you clarified it, it did.
So, um, yeah, that's interesting.
So you're right.
That is a more nuanced position and it's, it is nicely refreshing and super annoying
that somebody can be, you know, it's like, Oh, you're not just a fucking villain.
You know, they're, you know, that's, that's, it was much easier when I knew I just hate
the Kochs.
