And he was like, headphones policy, you can wear them, I mean, and I was like, no, like
is it a safety hazard?
He's like, what?
It's like, no, I'm telling you this because I like the alarms are loud enough.
Yeah.
I'm like on the spectrum and I can't deal with lots of voices.
Like I need like some quiet in order to read and be able to work in process that he's like,
no, you can wear headphones.
I mean, obviously, like if someone's trying to talk to you, you got to take them off.
But like, and then like the other thing, the previous boss had said that the FDA was going
to write us up if she came in, it's all the people wearing jeans.
That's yeah.
I think the thing I hate most about conflict theorist people is that they force everyone
around them into the conflict.
You can't like have a reasonable discussion about God, I think it was an NPR article or
heard recently about a guy who was working as a fruit picker, right?
As a young man and he was like really fast, he got to the end of the row and everyone
is still like two thirds of the way working through there.
So he's like, all right, I did my work, I'm going to rest.
And the boss was like, no, get over to the next row and start picking.
And he's like, no, everyone else is working at that speed.
I got done faster so that I could have a break now.
And he like got in his face and he was like physically threatening him, you know, he's
like, I don't care.
I'm the boss.
You do this, or I will have someone come over here and beat you.
And like, what do you do at that point?
There's there.
Yeah.
There's no argument version of this where say I was working at like a retail store and
I finish all the work that I have to do.
And then like, I feel like I deserve to read a magazine until a customer comes in or until
there's a mess or until I need to make more food or whatever.
Right.
But like, I've worked at jobs where I had a boss that was like, yeah, sure, if you finish
all the work, read a magazine.
And I've had bosses that were like, oh, if you finish all the work, you got to just basically
they tell you you got to fake being busy because if I see you looking like you're not doing
like the work that I'm paying you to do, then then that makes me upset.
Yeah.
You got to like go like Windex everything three times and shuffle all the stuff on the shelves
around and count all the receipts and then recount them.
And I think a boss physically threatening you like he did is literally illegal.
I'm assuming he's a fruit picker.
You might not have legal recourse.
Right.
You don't have legal recourse.
Like at that point I would have been like, I bring a knife to work next time and stab
him in the gut.
But then of course I would be killed by the mob or whoever it was that was employing him.
So yeah.
And also you wouldn't receive your paycheck anymore and just the money on the guy that
you killed.
I expected that you're working as a fruit picker because you need to.
Yeah.
But it was just it was so infuriating.
It's the more conflict people there are, the worse the world is because they draw everything
else into a conflict rather than into something you can talk about.
Well, I think that a go ahead, Stephen.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah.
The other side of that though is that like there really is a conflict here and reasoning
with the guy wouldn't have worked.
We need to just, you know, what if all of us workers, there's more workers here than there
are enforcers.
Let's just all grab, you know, whatever fruit something heavy and let's let's let's solve
this problem.
Right.
But that seems like a very reasonable solution to the other one being, you know, stepped
on.
Yeah.
And if only like, if all those fruit pickers just like killed their boss and we're like,
we're the fruit pickers now, then like they'd, they'd get in trouble with the law.
And that that's the stuff.
They wouldn't have to kill the boss if they all rose up and we're like, no, he got to
the end of the road.
Like they protested.
Yeah.
If you want to beat them up, we'll fight back.
But I mean, there is not that level of coordination and it's, it's hard to coordinate people to
say, will you stand up to, you know, get smacked down so I can rest because I work faster
than you.
And it's funny, you know, Jesse with the previous jobs where it's like, they're not, they get
frustrated.
You use the phrase, they're paying you to work, right?
Or something like that.
Like not, they're paying you to work when they see you not working.
Yeah.
So it's like, the thing is, yes, you're paying me to do these jobs.
I did them.
Like, let me, let me keep doing that.
No, no, watching you just stand around getting paid those eight bucks an hour really pisses
me off unless you're doing stuff to earn it.
It's like, but I did the stuff to earn it.
I just did it faster.
Yeah.
If you've never had a job where your boss said to you, if there's time to lean, there's
time to clean, then, then maybe you don't quite get where it's like to be on the bottom
rung.
But yeah, it's like, no, no, I worked my ass off for two hours.
It's like, yeah, but you're leaning on that counter and like, not even like taking a break,
you're like just, you know, physically resting for a second.
So if you got time to lean, you've got time to like grab a fucking mop.
Yeah, these are just bosses that don't fucking understand incentives because you want your
employees to be efficient or you want them to be finished fast and to do the job right.
And then you want to reward them for that by letting them read a goddamn magazine.
The bosses that do the opposite of that just generate lots of hostility.
And then I'm just going to work slower.
I'm intentionally just going to do a shitty job.
But before McDonald's or a fruit picking farm, you've got an endless supply of labor
of people that will continue to do exactly as you say.
Even if all of them did unite like that, they just wouldn't get invited back to work the
next day because there's three times as many waiting every day than can be employed.
Yeah.
You'd have to literally like unionize every single guy in that town or that city or that
state because more people would be happy to take their place if you didn't already have
an agreement like, you know, we all stand up for each other when this happens.
Yeah, that's hard.
Coordination problems are, you know, famously hard.
And it's one of those things like I always put in mind of like handling a I don't know
why I always put in mind of this, but handling like a terrorist violent situation.
You know, somebody with a handgun or a box cutter wanted to take control of a plane.
It's like, there's like 150 of us on here, guys.
Let's just swarming.
Like, sure, some of us will get stabbed, but we're going to win.
But you can't convince your, your, your seat partners, you know, on the plane next
to you, like, do you want to risk getting stabbed to take this guy down?
And so, I mean, even though you couldn't in the past, when the hijackers would have the
plane land and then like make demands for money or something.
Now that everyone knows if the plane is hijacked, we all die anyway.
They do.
They might.
They probably would.
I mean, I think that's happened at least once.
Yeah.
Well, that happened in flight 93.
Yep.
So things like that are better coordinated in the air, maybe, but maybe not.
That's kind of mutually assured destruction.
Yeah.
Like, uh, it's harder when, you know, you have the bystander effect.
Somebody gets hit by a car and then everybody kind of looks around like, oh,
man, who's going to do the thing?
He's going to call 911.
What do we do?
What do we do?
Or who's going to rush towards the burning vehicle to pull them out?
Cause we need six people to get this guy out, but one of us can't do it.
So who wants to get burned?
Right.
Um, you can't pick people out in the crowd.
Be like, who wants burn wounds?
Right.
Well, actually apparently that's what you're supposed to do.
You go, you, you and you, come here.
Yeah.
But it's, I think in that situation where there's more people to choose from,
and like they're not, they're not going to die of this down the sidelines.
But yeah, that is how you solve the bystander effect.
You call people out and be like, he's going to die if you don't come up here
and help me, then people are like, well, now it's on me.
And getting that ownership on them, I think is the, is the agreed upon solution.
Yeah.
Number three.
Number three.
All right.
Mistake theorists think you can save the world by increasing intelligence.
Most techno, excuse me, you make technocrats smart enough to determine the best policy,
which this is how, you know, that the mistake theorists are the, the rationalists.
Increase intelligence is like our, you know, one of our buttons.
It's one of our dopamine buttons, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, conflict theorists think you can save the world by increasing passion.
The rich and powerful win because they already work together efficiently.
The poor and powerless will only win once they unite and stand up for themselves.
Now, those are both compelling.
And the thing is, I don't think they're mutually exclusive.
Um, I can see how they're on the opposite sides of how to handle a problem, but you
can kind of do both, but he goes on to elaborate on that a bit where it's like, no wrong
people can be just as passionate as right people.
And so passion isn't, isn't the solution here, but it is.
If you think like, look, this isn't about like making the smarter, making the smart
people smarter.
This is about like, this is about getting enough food pickers pissed off to all say, we
won't let you bully us.
Right.
Yeah.
Ideal world would be people are passionate about figuring out what the truth is.
Yeah, exactly.
Like I keep coming back to the example that I used of the, uh, the doctor and the patient.
You know, uh, it's weird that we treat politics different than like, because in a way,
like you're saying, we're trying to, our patient is the state and we're trying to
save them.
And it's like, if I am thinking about this as a cancer patient that we need to save,
I would hope that all the doctors would like stop fighting over, well, I'm, I'm
right because I have this many degrees.
Oh, well, I'm right because my grandmother told me that this is the way that you cure
cancer or whatever.
You're like, like, no, I would actually hope that they would talk about it, maybe fight
