Like, look how cool I am.
I, I believe in this thing or like, look how crazy I am.
Woo.
Yeah.
Well, I think it's very much a, I believe I identify so strongly with my tribe.
I'm willing to say this patently ridiculous thing in public.
Yeah.
Or it's just like, or I think it'd be just fun to be super weird and I'm
going for quirky points.
Well, I mean, it could be that too.
Yeah.
But I think that's, that's a good explanation for a lot of crazy belief
that people will say, even if they don't act like they believe them.
So what's a real example that we see of people doing believe is attire?
I mean, is that where like rationalists go around, you know, saying, I guess,
no, it's not the same as thing as like running around saying buzzwords,
like singularity or something.
Um, it's, it's going to be maybe more like, uh, I guess, like saying, oh,
you should give your money to Mary.
Might, might be a belief is attire kind of thing.
Maybe picking a rationalist is not the right way to pick at this,
but there should be a way to do it.
Cause it will look, it could look the same, right?
Yeah.
Um, as, uh, I'm trying to think.
I think a good example is believing that three different people are one person,
but that are also three different people.
Like, I mean, something that is literally, literally logically incoherent,
but you say it anyway, and you say you actually believe it.
What you're saying, that's a belief as attire.
Yeah, the Trinity.
If something is logically incoherent, how could it not be?
Um, maybe I'm missing what belief as attire is then.
I thought that that was, uh, deliberately wearing something or like wearing
in kind of a metaphorical sense.
I, yeah, I guess I actually, I think I see what you're saying.
Like if, if you go around saying, yes, I believe in the Trinity, uh, then that
it feels pretty similar to the previous thing actually.
Yeah.
Maybe, maybe an easier one is just pick any political stance, right?
You know, like if, if you're having lunch with coworkers or something,
and they're talking about how, you know, messed up the, uh, the drug war is,
if you'd be like, yeah, and those fucking billionaires, am I right?
And then I'm like, yeah, you know, like just, I mean, that's, that's, yeah.
I actually think anytime you are in a political discussion and you feel
reluctant to disagree with people on your own side, that's a sign that it might
be a belief as a tire because you disagree with them on this, but you
don't want to say it out loud because that would mark you as not part of the tribe.
And I have those moments all the damn time.
Or if you just go around the circle and all chime in on how much you
agree with each other, that would also be, that would be an example of beliefs
as a tire too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But you might actually believe that.
Perfect.
But you might actually believe that thing.
But that's not a prerequisite for beliefs as a tire, right?
Or rather, that's not an exclusionary factor of it.
Yes.
You know, you can, you can either, it's just, it's more obvious when the
belief is ridiculous.
You can either profess the belief in that counts, or you can actually believe
the belief and profess it and that counts too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
I don't have much else to say on that one.
No, me neither.
It's fun.
It was, it was interesting.
And when I first read it, quite the revelation, which was, you know, why, I
read that this sequence is to be like, Oh my God, that explains this thing that I
never could quite figure out.
Yeah.
Like, and at this point it's been out for like, what, 15 years?
So it's not nearly the revelation that it was when you first read it or when I
first read it.
But it does explain it.
People will spend 60 bucks on the football jersey to wear around, you know, or, you
know, maybe the modern version of my daily life is like people's laptop
stickers and it's like, why do you have, you know, an AWS sticker on your laptop?
It's like, Oh, you want to tell me that you know, or that you worked for this.
You went to a conference or something.
Okay, cool.
Well, let's not believe it as a tire.
That's just a tire as a tire.
That's true.
All right.
I don't know.
There's some like, you could say the corporate cultures of belief or a corporate
of if you buy it, what's the thing where you identify?
Maybe it's just brand identification.
What's the thing where you identify with the brand?
Oh, um, yeah, maybe like owning Apple products and being really like Gung-ho
about Apple products.
That's like, in general, tribalism.
I think if you were like convinced that Apple is always superior and the best.
Oh, I've met people like that.
Yeah.
Then that would be more of a belief as a tire thing.
No, like I knew someone that owned every new Apple device as soon as it came out
and went shut up about how great and visionary Steve Jobs was.
I wonder if Steve Jobs was pretty amazing.
I wonder if they still feel that way or if they've jumped off the train
and that Apple stopped innovating.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Um, maybe you're just too entrenched and you just got to keep
saying that that would be just belief as a tire professing.
You know, now they're at the point of just, uh, you know, professing and cheering.
Right.
It's like, now they don't really believe this stuff anymore.
But if they're committed, they've got to say it.
Um, that's actually not really the point of that post either.
I'm kind of trying to think whether, uh, Robin Hansen's writing about signaling
has kind of superseded some of these sequences at this point.
I feel like they're a bit more targeted, like in a, in the sense of.
He definitely explored them more and was a lot more academic and
thorough about them.
I guess, um, it depends on how much you love evolutionary psychology, but.
Okay.
Here's like, not only, I guess an evolutionary psychology
explanation for this behavior, but like game theoretic explanations.
Um, it makes it a lot more coherent for me where I can look at people doing
these crazy behaviors and like, why are you doing this?
This is ridiculous.
And it's like, oh, this actually was adaptive.
Kind of the whole, uh, cultural evolution thing all comes back together.
And the, uh, the mental model, the press secretary, you know, like, it
doesn't matter if you actually believe this or not.
You'll say you will convince yourself and believe it.
Right.
Um, press six area of the, of the person to bring.
I'm also a little distracted at the sequence part of this whole episode
cause I am out of a bit of a time crunch.
So.
Oh, well, that cause we should wrap up.
I think so.
Sorry.
Yeah.
No problem.
Sorry about that.
No, no, it's, yeah, I didn't, I didn't mention it.
You guys didn't know, but I'm never too busy to thank our gracious patrons.
Oh, I got another easy one.
All right.
Well, John Clark, this is your, your episode.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, John.
Yeah, we really appreciate it.
This I, I now I'm at the point where like I'm meta commenting on how I always
do the same thing.
Just because we say the same thing every, every episode doesn't mean it means
any less.
And, uh, today's, you know, we're calling you out.
This is awesome.
Thanks, John.
Maybe next time you wanted a good way.
Yes.
Maybe next time we'll work on our thinking, talking thing.
I've heard other podcasts where they do this every episode and there's no
that I found gracious way to do it.
Okay.
Unless you just list the names.
Yeah, but that seems lame.
Yeah.
I want to tell you how personally important it is.
So.
You have made a difference for our lives and our self-esteem and the
esteem of our podcast in our own estimation.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Wow.
That was good.
Okay.
I thought it was terrible and awkward.
You made it.
You tried to do a thing and I value that.
Good job.
Cool.
All right.
Well, thank you to everyone who listens to us and makes this possible.
And to John Clark and specific this week.
Yep.
Yeah.
Once again, plug in the discord.
We'll have the link in every show note going forward.
Yeah.
Um, come by, do stuff, say hi, and, uh, or lurk like I do.
Yeah.
And if discord's not your thing, we also have the subreddit.
That's right.
R slash the Bayesian conspiracy.
Exactly.
Reach out to us directly via email at Bayesian conspiracy podcast at gmail.com.
And I guess comment on the website.
Yeah.
Leave a review at iTunes.
That helps me know more people find the podcast.
