Yeah.
And I'm not a Koch historian.
I'm sure there's, you know, people that like, Oh, no, if you look at their track record,
it's 95% bad.
And these five things that you just mentioned are the only good things they've ever done
in their lives.
But well, I mean, or vice versa.
If you, if you look at it in conflict theory terms where it's basically reds versus blues,
they were pretty consistent in most elections being like, I mean, we hate both these guys,
but the red guy is better than the blue guy in this case.
And so they would generally always fund the Republican side of things, which, you know,
kind of fuck that shit.
But um, it's, it's not like they were supportive of all this, you know, make all the drugs
illegal criminalized being gay thing.
They were just like, in our list of priorities, we think the red is better than the blue overall
for this thing.
So they were complicated and possibly mistaken about where the money should go.
But they were where the, like the pro gay marriage stance was that like just a thing
they said, or they donate money, like, do they put their, I mean,
I don't think that their initiative was pro gay marriage.
Like I don't think that they have a specific organization that they used to fund a lot
of things.
I don't think that organization did anything with gay marriage.
They have been supportive of it, like vocally, but,
And that's better.
That's a lot better than nothing.
Right.
And, you know, throwing money at it is better than saying something.
You know, when you're a billionaire, it doesn't cost you anything to go against the party
line when, you know, you literally, you've got a billion dollars, right?
So it would be,
I think it would cost you something to go against the party line.
I'm sure it does.
I meant that in a way that like, you know, you might go from, you know, 1.7 to, you
know, 1.6 billion.
That's obviously doesn't cost you anything in terms of money, but I think in terms of
social capital, the more you are opposing your group, the more the less people want
to cooperate with you.
And then of course, then of course being, I'm going to put on my conflicts, my conflicts
theorist hat for a second, which is like, sure, I could signal my allegiance to supporting
gay marriage for no, for no cost to me to show the blue tribe that I'm not an evil
person, but I'm not going to actually do anything.
So I'm going to just try and get people to hate me less by just making some noises.
Yeah.
Kind of like when a Starbucks like donates a bunch of money to some cause like fair trade
coffee, but they're actually putting money out, right?
So if they just, if all Starbucks did was say we're pro free trade coffee, no, but when
the companies do it generally, it's so they can get tax breaks, right?
Or, or like, yeah, have like a good public image.
So more people will buy their coffee, like they're self interested, like, yeah, corporations
or profit maximizers, literally everything they do is because they think it will increase
profits.
But I think that it would actually, I mean, a blue tribe person is not going to think
that the Koch brothers are any less evil just because they're pro same sex marriage.
They're like, okay, you said that.
Well, but most, I mean, you literally also just said that, oh, I'm going to say this
so people think I'm less evil, but I'm still going to be evil.
Right.
Yeah.
Whereas, you know, so they're not really buying any or much goodwill by that, but they're
kind of alienating people on their side that they need to coordinate with by their side
in quotes.
Yeah.
That makes a compelling point.
And I, you know, certainly I think speech is free when you're rich, right?
So like, if you're, if you're struggling to get by, unlike you, like you, again, if you're
a struggling corporation, you need to like make sure you're not losing friends by saying
things.
And so you're, in that sense, that's what I mean by speech being free.
If you're a billionaire, then it's like, I can say whatever I want.
I'm going to stay a billionaire.
I see what you're saying.
I think once you get that level of rich, I mean, yes.
Speech costs you more when you're not like Davos rich, that then you actually have to
be concerned about money.
But once you get to a certain level of rich, it's not about the money anymore.
It's about the social influence, the power that you have through that.
And then speech starts costing you in other ways.
Yeah.
You're playing a different game now with different stakes.
Yeah.
I guess what I'm saying is that they're not risking anything other than like, again, I
guess losing social capital against the people that they're typically allied with at that
level in the game.
That's all that matters.
People will ever not have mega mansions, right?
That's my point.
Kind of.
I think we're talking about each other a bit.
Like my thing is they could lose all their allies and still be set for the next five
generations of their whole family line.
They don't have to worry about being fired from their job and then starving on the streets
because they needed that job to make ends meet.
Or, you know.
But I mean, that's assuming that the end of the game is to be able to be set for multiple
generations.
Because at that point they're playing a different game where now it's like actually trying to
influence the world.
And that's, I mean, higher stakes and also not done with money nearly as much as it is
with other levers of power.
I mean, you could do a lot with a hundred million in dollars.
Yeah.
And if you're not, if you're not writing a $5,000 check to some pro game marriage lobby
group, then you're saying something doesn't mean much.
But I'm getting hung up on the one example.
Okay.
It seems like, yeah, there were some redeeming factors there, and that's, uh, five.
That's a fun, that's a fun convoluting detail to their existence.
And I just, just to make it very clear, I am not pro coke at all.
I think they've done much more harm in their lives.
No, your pro honesty was just dope.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, this going to the second point.
Let's do that.
Uh, mistake theorists view debate as essential.
We all bring different forms of expertise to the table.
And once we all understand the whole situation, we can use wisdom of crowds to converge on
the treatment plan that best fits the needs of our mutual patient, the state.
Who wins on any particular issue is less important than creating an environment where
truth can generally prevail over the long term.
Conflict theorists view debate as having a minor clarifying role at best.
You can debate with your boss over whether or not you get a raise, but only with the
shared understanding that you're naturally on opposite sides.
And the winner will be based less on objective moral principles than on how much power each
of you has.
If your boss appeals too many times to objective moral principles, he's probably offering
you a crappy deal, which puts me, I don't know, the first example, I'm leaning pretty
hard mistake.
And then this example, I'm kind of like, nah, kind of kind of conflict.
That's why I like the post is it's not, he clearly wasn't picking aside and he goes on
at the end to say this is that I've been doing, but maybe I've been viewing things
wrong.
Like he doesn't paint a nice rosy picture of the mistake theorists and this dumb character
of the conflict theorists.
I think he does a pretty balanced job.
Yeah.
I'm not sure he does.
I think he does a somewhat balanced job.
I felt like I felt in almost every example.
And maybe this is just me being very pro mistake theorist myself, but I thought in almost every
example, the mistake theorists felt very reasonable and the kind of people that I would want to
have around me and be in power and the conflict theories felt almost like caricatures of dumb
people.
Yeah.
I think you weren't modeling the conflict theorists, which is weird because you described
to me that in your teenagers, you were like a, you know, Bernadette Annanarquist.
Yeah.
I thought you'd be more conflict theorist side when we got here.
I knew, I knew, I think we can guess where we're all at, but like, I think their thing
isn't like that we're dumb and we feel like just, you know, everything, we need to kill
all these bad people.
It's just like, no, things are really this bad.
This is the only way to fix it.
Yeah.
The problem is that now I think of my teenage self as wrong rather than evil.
So it's, I'm still looking even at my past as in the mistake theorist format.
If I was, if I was still feeling, if I still agree with my teenage self and all my stuff,
I would be a really stupid person.
So yeah, I'm only kind of a dumb person because I disagree with most things my teenage self
believed.
So I mean, they're objectively, there are many times when conflict is what's actually
happening, especially when you have a shitty boss, like when you have a good boss, it's
not that big a thing.
But when you do have one of these people that are just assholes and are trying to squeeze
as much out of their workers as they can before they ditch them, that sucks.
Yeah.
And then it's, it is much more like an actual conflict thing.
Yeah.
And again, it's not that they're missing the facts.
It's not that they're, that, you know, we just need to talk this out and we can come
to an amicable, amicable solution.
They're like, no, I've got it figured out and I hold the cards.
So I had a good example of that.
My last boss, I had a shitty boss who just liked to go on power trips.
And this was the type of person who would make up arbitrary rules just so like she could
have power over people, like which things you are and aren't allowed to wear to the
office, which were really arbitrary.
There was the headphones policy where even if you're like in your room doing office work
all day long, you can't wear headphones because it's a safety hazard.
Even if you're not dealing with patients at all, like there was a bunch of things like
you can't use your computer for anything other than work related stuff.
And if I catch you for one second Googling something, then like you're in trouble.
And like it's the weird kind of, if somebody were actually aiming at trying to get like
value out of their workers, there's been a lot of studies that show first of all people
have about four hours of productive like work time in them.
And these eight hour work shifts end up just being people dicking around for four hours
or working very slowly and inefficiently throughout the eight hours.
I think it depends by industry as well.
Yeah.
I mean, I think that it applies more to knowledge work probably, but then there's still like
physical exhaustion if you're doing manual labor or whatever, but like, and then stuff
like open offices.
There's a different boss that I had that was like insistent upon, we got to open up the
office space.
I want everybody collaborating, everybody talking to everybody all the time.
I can't work like that God.
That's why I wear headphones.
I talked to my current boss actually, I just got a new job and I was like, what's your
headphones policy?
