about it, but in a productive way.
But like, why don't, why do we see politics so differently?
Well, that's, that's kind of the, the rub of the first point, right?
That like, if you're viewing it as, as a problem that we can figure out by just
understanding it better and thinking about it, maybe even testing it and doing, you
know, uh, investigating results and stuff, then you're thinking about it the wrong
way, like the, the people who hold all the power right now aren't, uh, they're not
going to listen to your study, right?
As they don't.
Well, we don't all have the same, we don't have aligned goals.
I've heard stories of, uh, God, I don't even remember countries that would, there
were like developing countries where, uh, people do actually think of much more
things in that conflict mistake theory and where doctors, if an underling saw that
a doctor was, or someone lower on the wrong saw that a doctor was doing something
wrong, they wouldn't say anything out of fear of like, you're challenging the
doctor, you can't do that.
And people would die.
Oh yeah.
Simple things that.
Unfortunately, that happens in the civilized world too.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
In Japan, they have to have their, um, token in the American world.
That was fucked up.
Oh, well, I mean, it's a term, the first world or whatever, the developed, developed
world.
It sounds majority, but it has a meaning that makes sense.
Um, it can be used majority, but it is, I think it's useful distinction,
useful term to have.
Um, no, I actually think I misspoke.
I think it just suffers from, um, term inflation like anything else.
Like, uh, it used to just mean what we mean by developed and developing, right?
Civilized and uncivilized.
And then people kept using uncivilized to, you know, mean these lower people
until it became an insult.
So now you can't do it.
Bet you 20 years from now, we won't be able to say developing countries
anymore because that'll be an insult and we'll have to use some other term.
Yeah.
I, that seems like it'll slow, like then who do you send your, who do you send
your charity money to, right?
I mean, they'll have a new term.
Yeah.
Like now we have, what is it, developmentally disabled or something?
Yeah.
Yeah.
People will take whatever the politically correct term we've decided upon and make
that into the new pejorative.
Right.
Like the word pejorative is actually mean.
Yeah.
Something rather than just being an insult that you can't say.
He used to be an actual diagnosis.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's, I think it's, I guess I'm just thinking like if, if, if
the developing world in whatever link that we have in 20 years sounds just as
good as the developed world, then it's like, oh, there's nothing they're doing.
Okay.
They don't need our charity money.
They're the, they're the early flourishing world, right?
Or something like that.
Well, then we can be the postflourish world.
Obviously the early flourishing world needs more, more contribution money.
More flourish.
Yeah.
All right.
Got one more example.
Oh, I guess it's me now, right?
It's you.
Number four, for a mistake theorist, passion is inadequate or even suspect.
Oh, I think you were just talking about this one.
Wrong people can be just as loud as right people, sometimes louder.
All that passion does is use pressure or even threats to introduce bias into the
important work of debate and analysis.
For conflict theorist, intelligence is inadequate or even suspect.
It doesn't take a super genius to know that poor farm laborers working 12 hour
days in the scorching heat deserve more than $9 an hour minimum wage when the
CEO makes nine million.
I didn't like those numbers.
I think, you know, you're making six bucks a day as a, as a strawberry picker,
right?
Something like that.
Yeah.
And it depends where, and you know, if you get a nice, whatever, I guess,
trying to think of a nice word for slave owner or, but it's not exactly the same.
Sort of the same.
It's like, all right, who wants 10 bucks?
Cool.
Go work for me for 10 hours in the heat.
It's, you know, nine bucks an hour sounds great at that point, right?
To some people, they say that's enough to live off of.
So.
I mean, for some people, it is enough to live off of.
Sure.
Just not very well.
Not a great life.
And nine million is different than like 90 million.
You know, that's like a $9 million Christmas bonus, right?
So the numbers, I think could be more disparate to better illustrate that point.
And that seems like he's kind of, uh, straw manning the conflict theorists.
They're a smidge.
That's a minor quibble I'd have.
Well, I mean, but this, the conflict theorists would also make that point about
nine an hour and nine million as well.
And as far as straw manning it, he did say in like the next post, which was the
aggregation of the best comments that he was intentionally trying to straw man
both sides in order to kind of point them out at their, their most extreme edges.
Good point.
And that's a technique that I like a lot.
You make things as absurd as possible with, while still being reductio out of
certain, yeah, but the productive version of that where it's like, this is the bottom
of the slippery slope that you're talking about.
Are you still on board?
Okay, cool.
And that's the edge of, that's the boundary condition of what we're talking about.
Right.
So I like that technique too.
I'm not sure if it was in this part of the essay, but, uh, when he was talking about
wrong people being, it can be as loud as right people or sometimes louder.
I remember there was an example that I just thought was hilarious where he was talking
about the doctor patient analogy again and said, if, uh, the patient hired his crazy
aunt to stand outside the room and yell its lupus repeatedly, like, I don't think
that that's actually contributing anything.
And I just love that mental image because I can imagine someone doing something
like that, like people are nuts.
And then getting their Facebook group friends to come, you know, pick at the
hospital and scream its lupus and like they're super passionate, but they're,
but they're super wrong.
Right.
Um, that, that does sound, uh, counterproductive and dangerous if you're
trying to make the well-being of the, of the place.
Of course, then he goes back with another example with like the fake drug or something.
And then it's like, this picketer would have been right to like, say, no,
don't use that medication.
Was that the, is that the best of comments?
Or is that later on in the post?
I think that was, I think it must have been in the comments.
I was it, huh?
Or at least it's not in the snippets that we pulled out, but the
example was something like, you know, it was like a Pfizer drugs or there's a
company owned by Pfizer and they're only like prescribed Pfizer drugs.
And then you find that out and you're like, yeah, the hospital is
understandably annoyed by this.
Yeah.
And so then when you're outside picketing, that makes perfect sense.
It's like, they're trying to give you these drugs, not because they're the
best for you, but because the CEO owns the hospital and they make money every
time they prescribe these drugs and the doctors get fired if they don't prescribe
them, this isn't medicine, this is a racket.
It's a good thing that never happens.
I think we can skip five because we already covered it.
Um, yeah, that was the free speech and open debate part.
I don't know.
Do we not have anything else to say about that?
Oh, about the first one?
About, uh, number five, um, the free speech and open debate.
Yeah.
Yeah, I guess we covered that one.
So, uh, six, when mistake theorists criticize democracy, it's because it
gives too much power to the average person who wasn't very smart.
When conflict theorists criticize democracy, it's because it doesn't give
enough power to the average person.
Special interests can buy elections or convince representatives to
betray campaign promises.
I'm pausing here because I totally kind of agree with both sides.
Yeah.
And so this, this was a good example.
Like I've, I've probably said the exact same words before.
It's like, you know, why does, and it, it's, sounds uncharitable, but why
does the uneducated idiot get the same amount of, of vote as, you know,
political scientists, right?
The reason this is hard for me is because I think that I wish there was
some system where people could have power over what they decided to do with
their own lives and not affect everyone around them.
But this is the kind of thing where like you're letting parents not
vaccinate their kids and they feel really passionately that vaccines
cause autism or that like diseases are healthy and help you develop a
strong immune system and you're just wrong.
Yeah.
But like if, if that person were making that decision about their own health,
then I think they have the right to do that.
They're still wrong, but that's their life.
And I kind of think that everyone should have the ability to vote because
if they don't, then you can say, well, those people who don't get the vote
were voting for a lot to make them slaves or something.
Right?
Yeah.
No, totally.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I think it'd be much better if it was just very hard to pass laws that
affect other people.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, the other, the other side of the conflict isn't just like, uh, I mean,
but that's like a stupid thing to say.
Letting, well, no, no, I mean, it's, it, it, like every law does affect
other people.
That's the point of laws.
