look, the time for talk is done.
Right.
Like, you know, and there are people like that on both sides of the political
spectrum, right?
Well, and teenage me would look at now me and be like, you're just saying that
because you're an old white guy who got his and you want to hold onto it.
You don't care about all the poor oppressed people who are being
ground into the dirt.
So fuck you.
You deserve to have your shit burned and maybe lose a limb or your life because
you're helping empower the system that does all this.
And then you could be like, listen to your little shit.
Like what, you don't realize how bad this would be for everybody.
If we just, you know, burn down all the expensive buildings and kill all the
rich people and younger me would say like, you know what, it'd be better
than what we have now.
We can start over again from the ashes.
And I mean, if a teenage me survived the revolution, I'm still young.
I'm healthy.
I have a lot of labor.
I could probably survive, you know, just everyone else in society who was
not as young and physically gifted at as physically privileged as I am at
that time would have a much worse time.
We're just like lucky enough not to die in one of the fires.
Yeah.
You know, I think I was much more into this also because I was very isolated.
Like if I had elderly relatives that I cared about, I probably wouldn't
have been as pro-revolution because I would have seen that could harm them.
But since it was just me and my fellow peer group, plus my parents, which I
really didn't like that much, there weren't frail people that depended on
society continuing.
I didn't have young nieces.
I didn't have old relatives.
I was like, fuck it.
Yeah, I can, but yeah, there, I, as a, as a stop to me younger self.
Yes, there are definitely times like when slavery was a thing in the
American South where there's literally the best thing to do is burn down the
society because it's just that bad.
Yeah, I, that's, that's essentially my position.
Or if you're living in Nazi Germany, things can theoretically be bad enough
where it's like, no, you know what, let's deal with the five years of chaos,
fires and famine.
And, you know, if that's the, if that's the cost that it takes to knock this over
and then whatever we build can't be this bad.
And cause we just, we won't do the same things.
You know, we won't have concentration camps and slavery and like that's
already going to put us ahead of where we were.
So I can see where it could be that bad.
I don't necessarily see it being in conflict with a mistake there.
I mean, you can still weigh the pros and cons of revolution versus not.
And then make an informed decision.
That's mistake theory though.
Conflict theory would not, would not be weighing those pros and cons.
They would say even the idea that you're trying to weigh the pros and cons is a
tool of the oppressors.
Yeah.
And that's what I can't get behind.
I mean, uh, yeah, I would be behind a revolution.
I guess this still makes me a mistake.
There's been, because I would want to, okay, but let's like actually crunch some
numbers before we flip the government on its head.
Yeah, that's got a great example of that at the very end, the article.
And that's where I'd come down to.
And that's, I wonder if maybe that's a way to think about it, a conflict
there is to somebody who's already done that calculus to their own satisfaction.
And that's where they've arrived.
Right.
Maybe, I don't know.
I know people that are completely guided by their gut.
Uh, there's like, it's instinct driven people and kind of like slow deliberate
people.
Um, I'm not even sure if that's entirely what this is describing.
Yeah.
I, there's some people I know as conflict theorists who are, you know,
very smart people and I wouldn't say they're instinct driven, but they already
know that the other side is immoral and is just in this for themselves.
And so they don't need to look at the enemy propaganda, trying to confuse
them into not fighting for their side anymore.
They know what's right and what's wrong.
I even know people to her like in privileged positions where like they
could go in and get a loan, they make money.
And they're like, no, this is all terrible.
We need to burn it down.
Sent for my iPhone eight, you know, like it, those are the kinds of, uh, that's
like, that's like the, those are the walking straw people, right?
Um, I guess I'm trying to figure out, and that's the end of the point.
I guess maybe that's the end of the, the article where like, is there a way to,
yeah, in fact, I'll bring that up later.
So like, is there a way to steal man, uh, the conflict theory perspective?
And I'm not actually sure either, but it's worth thinking about.
So I think there is, because I think I'm a conflict theorist to the extent
that I think that people can be bad actors.
I'm not saying that I think they're always bad actors.
Like it sounds almost like mistake theorists think that people are genuinely
just mistaken about what is true and that nobody is like out to screw anybody
else over and that doesn't seem to be the world we live in.
I mean, there's definitely bad people out there.
There's bad people.
There's that, yeah, there's that boss at the, at the, for the fruit picking thing.
There was the, uh, heard another article recently about a guy who infiltrated
one of those, um, scam calls where they call up elderly people and scam them
out of all their money slowly by like, no, your computer is being frozen.
You have to send it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There was, there was this, the story about this one lady they had on the phone
who had spent her life savings, like $40,000, I think, and she was crying
and on the phone and like, why did you do this to me?
What, what, and they put her on speakerphone and everyone in the office
gathered around just to laugh at her.
Like, look at the sucker that we managed to get all her money.
And it was fucking disgusting.
Yeah, there's some gross people.
And, you know, it's not even just individual level things.
Like if Donald Trump is an example of a, of a, of a quintessential bad actor,
you can imagine, he is in, I guess I'm talking to the audience.
So if he's not, you can imagine a worse one.
And it's like, no, no, I'm only here to serve myself.
I really don't care what your facts are.
Your facts are not true.
Facts aren't real.
I'm in this for me and me alone.
I think a lot of Donald Trump can be explained by, he's a conflict theorist person.
He's like, I'm in this for me and my interests.
And I know everyone else is just in it for their interests.
So screw them before they can screw me.
I think that's giving it too much credit only because like, I don't think
that he's worried about, you know, I'm, I need to get ahead of the, of the other
bad actors and the other people are out, you know, the bad people are going to try
and get me. It's more just like, no, fuck you.
I got mine.
I want more.
I think if you're in that mindset, because I was married to someone in that mindset,
everyone is always hostile and no matter how much you have, you are always on guard
and you always have to be aggressive.
That's what makes them so toxic.
That's why you don't want one as the president.
Okay.
Because there's, they never feel safe.
All right, I can.
There's only one Donald Trump.
There's seven billion people out there in the world working to try to screw him.
On the plus side, on the plus side, that's a miserable existence.
Yes.
So there's, you shouldn't, you shouldn't, I shouldn't feel happy that I'm, you know,
by, by all reports, he's miserable being president.
He's never been under scrutiny before.
The fact that like, he can't just, I mean, this is like his first time, his first
tenure in public service is president of the United States.
And he can't just walk in and be like, no, no fire that guy.
It's like, you can't just do that.
Like, what do you mean?
I've always been able to do whatever I wanted.
I've been able to, you know, slap servants and rape my maids and nobody's
given one fuck.
And it's like, yeah, but now there's rules, now there's cameras on you.
It's like, well, this sucks.
And while reports, he's unhappy about that.
So while I shouldn't feel happy that he's unhappy with his current lot in life, I
sometimes can't help myself.
So, but yeah, you know, so like you said, I think that maybe that is the
resolution, Jess, that you can, that's why you can wear kind of both hats at once.
Like, if you're, if you're a mistake, the rest of the point where it's like, no,
no, they're just, you know, they're just misunderstanding.
They just need the right facts.
They need the right education.
They need the right training.
It's like, no, they, there are seriously bad people.
And you'll spend forever trying to debate somebody who's not interested in
debating you in good faith.
Yeah.
Or they'll just kill you.
Or yeah.
And so it's like, if that's where you're at, then that's the, if that's what,
if that's what it takes to wear the mistake theorist hat, then, then that's
not the right way to do it either.
Right.
So there is a somewhat balanced there.
This, this works.
Well, like I said, that I was going to say, this works in the context of, if you
think that, uh, things are still in a position where we can talk about them,
like things aren't that bad yet, then you can be a mistake theorist right up
until like, you decide that, nope, they're that bad.
Or if you can figure out if your values align with your, uh, opponents, I don't
even know if I want to use that word.
Um, the other doctors in the room, like, okay, like, you know, I get a
feeling that we're all actually trying to save this patient here.
And then now I'm, let's actually like listen to each other's point of view.
But if it is a hostile situation where it seems like this one doctor just
wants to push this one drug that Pfizer is paying him to push.
I guess it's a good to be suspicious.
Uh, that sounds paranoid.
No, it, it sounds exactly right.
It sounds exactly paranoid enough to the point where it's like, yeah, that's a
bummer, but yeah.
Did we have another thing to keep us going to get us off this bar now?
We have one last one.
All right.
Mistake theorists naturally think conflict theorists are making a mistake.
