They see them as having the value of a chicken or a pig that you might eat at
the supermarket.
And that's unfortunately really easy for humans to do to completely
personalize somebody.
So yeah, that makes those ones are harder for me to paint a happy backstory
for them that make them okay.
I'm not trying to make it a happy backstory.
I'm just saying that like it makes it not evil if the person doesn't like think
that they're killing another person.
Like this, this is a thing.
Right.
They aren't even in, they aren't evil in their own eyes.
If they see the other person as not a person.
Well, yeah.
What, what, what I was saying was that my backstory for a mugger gives the
version where like I can imagine the person mugging me being like a person
who's on hard times.
It just needs this more than I do apparently, but the person who murders
me for fun, uh, I can't paint a backstory for them that makes it, uh, that
makes them an okay person.
Right.
They are imagine them being very mentally ill and having been horribly
abused and traumatized their entire life.
So their values are skewed.
Yeah.
And I think the, the commenters point is that, you know, does it necessarily
matter if they would view themselves as evil or not?
If they're doing things that we personally consider evil.
I think in the context of like, and just to nitpick, like the mugger example,
presumably wouldn't be a mugger if they didn't have to, right?
The, the rapist murderer would probably do those things and do the more if they
could get away with more.
Like that makes sense to model those people as evil because there, there's no
way to, to save them basically without, you know, non-existent interventions.
Kind of sounds like what the commentator was trying to say is just that evil is
a word we should taboo.
And I kind of agree because I find it, it's an obnoxious word.
It's this dualist idea that like there are good people and there are bad people.
I think there are good or bad actions and that everything else is very complicated.
And we don't have any like free will anyway.
I think in general, evil is a term I would like to use as little as possible
because that is what actually allows people to do evil things.
Right.
It's like, I'm not, I'm not doing an evil thing.
I am protecting my society from this evil race of Jews that are trying to
destroy it or whatever.
The evil allows you to dehumanize other people and do things that's awful.
And so terrorists do terror because they're evil and they hate freedom.
Right.
Right.
But they actually do it because they view us as evil for whatever reason.
Yeah.
And I would prefer that we live in a society where everybody kind of understood
that we're all complicated and we have backstories and nobody's evil or good.
I think that does make for a better society because then you can't demonize
and dehumanize the people that you dislike.
So I think for pragmatic reasons, it's good to not think of other people
as evil as much as possible.
But to this person's point, yeah, when someone is calling all their friends
over to laugh at the grandma whose life savings they stole, who's crying
on the phone now, that feels fucking evil to me.
And I honestly would have loved to eviscerate all those people myself in that moment.
Yeah.
Someone like they don't deserve to keep breathing.
Someone stole hundreds of dollars and wasn't what was the substantial
money amount of money for her.
But luckily she stopped after one thing.
It was either like 160 or $360 on the same, you know, computer virus bullshit.
And I think we were able to get some of it back from the bank or something.
And then the rest was just gone.
My grandma a couple of years ago.
And I got not a violent person.
Like I don't, you know, I can enjoy a good violent thing on, you know,
the big screen or something, but I don't get any real satisfaction out
of imagining in a real way, like being in a violent situation myself.
And yet, like I thought about all the nasty things I do to this person.
Like you dare take money from my fucking grandma.
Like if I had you in a room, you would, you know, you wouldn't have fingers.
Yeah, like it would be.
Well, no, you leave them the fingers.
You just leave them with pulped bones so that they're useless, but hurt them every day.
You get creative.
Yeah.
And it's like, what was it?
Uh, yeah, from method of rationality were, you know, Voldemort's like, it'll be
eternities that they'll, or the list, they would be dead for eternities
before I'm through with them or something.
Right.
It wasn't quite that bad, but it was more just like, I would, I would beat the fuck
out of you.
Like, what the hell are you doing?
You're, um, it's, this is a good time to actually plug a podcast that I enjoy
called, uh, beating the fuck out of strangers.
That's right.
Uh, available for it.
No, it's, it's called, uh, um, hacking or excuse me, that's not the one.
It's a, yeah, hacking humans, uh, by the cyber wire is a couple of cybersecurity
guys and they get, it's like, you know, tight 25 minutes.
They have a nice little routine and they usually do like a catch up.
They like, as every episode they do a catch of the day where it's, you know,
they read some spam email that's like, got the broken English and it's funny
and it's whatever.
Um, some of them are like real events and then they'll have like sad stuff.
But then every episode they have like an interview with a different random person
in the field, whether it's like a physical penetration tester, like
somebody who will sneak into a big branch with a fake ID and get as far as
they can, but they've got like a letter in their back pocket saying this is
from the, I work for your company.
I'm, uh, contracted to like walk in here and show you how dumb it was to leave me
in a room with the vault, with the safe password written on the wall and that
sort of stuff or, um, people who have done, uh, you know, like white hat hacking or,
uh, anyway, they all, they all contain some little thing about like cyber
security and so, and they're all, it's a fun entertaining way to do it.
So hacking humans podcast is fun.
I've been listening to that, uh, it's short enough that I can listen to it from
when I leave my house to when I arrive at the light rail station to go to work.
So it's a nice little plug there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Excellent.
Awesome.
Um, I have two more feedbacks that are related, but I don't think we have time
to hit both of them in one.
So we want to save those till next time.
Uh, yeah.
Okay.
Let's go on to some sequences.
Yeah.
All right.
You were about to say?
Uh, nothing.
I forgot that we do sequence sections and I didn't read these ones, but I will play
the part of the audience and I don't, it's been a weird week for me.
I'm getting married on Friday.
We're recording on Sunday.
So you have a damn good excuse.
Well, kind of.
I mean, it was on like, I have an okay excuse.
You're getting married.
I've been distracted.
Good excuse.
I've been distracted.
Okay.
Um, I mean, it's not as good an excuse as like someone you love died and you're
planning the funeral, but that's true.
On the plus side, both of these are posts that I've like memorized because I love
them, so I'm ready to rock and roll.
Okay.
Uh, so less wrong posts.
The first one was called professing and cheering.
And in this one, Eliezer relates how someone on a panel in a conference was, uh,
on a panel about whether science and religion are compatible, gave a big
along explanation about her, uh, pagan belief that a cow licked the
universe into existence or something.
And, uh, he says that, first of all, it was absolutely just mind bogglingly
unbelievable, but when she was speaking that she spoke with pride, self
satisfaction, a deliberate flaunting of herself, that strange pride satisfaction
flaunting clearly had something to do with her knowing that her beliefs were
scientifically outrageous.
And it wasn't that she hated science.
She professed that religion and science were compatible.
Uh, should I just keep going then real quick?
Yeah.
Okay.
She didn't recite her creation myth with the fanatical faith of someone who
needs to reassure herself.
She didn't act like she expected us, the audience to be convinced.
If you had to profess a religious belief to satisfy a priest or satisfy
a co-religionist heck to satisfy your own self image as a religious person, you
would have to pretend to believe much more convincingly than this woman was
doing as she recited her tale of the primordial cow.
She wasn't even trying to be persuasive on that front.
Wasn't even trying to convince us that she took her own religion seriously.
Her recitation of the creation story wasn't about the creation of the world
at all.
Rather, she was cheering for paganism, like holding up a banner at a football
game, but it wasn't just a cheer like marching, but an outrageous cheer like
marching naked.
That's why it mattered to her that she was, that what she was saying was
beyond ridiculous.
If she tried to make it sound more plausible, it would have been like
putting on clothes and I did a lot of editing to shorten that down so that we
wouldn't be reading forever.
Yeah, that's a weird thing.
I've, I've, I've run into that sort of thing before.
I have to.
It's a, I, I don't get it.
Does someone explain the psychology of this to me?
I mean, we can because that's what the next post is about.
But yeah, that was just, I've seen that too.
And it's when people don't even pretend to act like they believe what they say
they believe is a crazy thing to see.
Do you have any examples?
You had one that you mentioned, like maybe several months ago, but you knew
somebody claimed to be vampire.
Oh yeah, but I'm not sure if they took themselves seriously or not.
Like, I don't know.
They, the point where like, if they had a compulsion, like if they were, you know,
it was some like sex play with consent, like fine.
Okay, that's, that's your cup of tea.
