behaviorally stacked humans and communities of those people before a full integration of the
global systems synthesis. Because the combination of those two and then the knowledge, then the
integration of what we face in a post-tragic way where you have others around you to support it,
that's powerful. That empowers people to be agents of change rather than just hearing
a bunch of disparate though true and accurate and linked facts about our situation.
I think we need to divert, we being governments, philanthropists, community people need to divert
a lot more resources now towards healing the humans that surround us.
The seventh category is the times that we are alive right now via education, via a heart-led
recognition, via experiences in nature. We are at the cusp of ecocide, to put it bluntly.
We need a lot more humans, not everyone that will never happen, not a majority that will never
happen. We need a solid group of five percent of the human beings alive today or more to recognize
the sacredness of this blue-green earth and integrate that into their value systems, into
who they are and from the ground up have a feeling of we are connected as opposed to me. Our software
going through this moonshot phase of ecological financial energetic overshoot
has divorced us from the best sides of what humans are capable of.
If you look at my list of what I think needs to be happened, these last four, community,
individual healing, the sense of the sacred, all of those then need to integrate the map
of what we need to do and that combination could be really powerful. Yes, we still need
the 1500. We need advanced policy. We need a lot of other things, but for the followers of this
podcast and the franklies and the work that we're doing, I think this feels exciting and relevant
to me. I have so much to say. I'm actually thankful that I made it through holy crap 24 minutes
and I was still able to call up most of my ideas, so maybe my COVID wasn't too bad.
I have so much more to say. I'm so grateful that so many of you are following this channel.
I don't want to broadcast this to the world, partially because the eye of Sauron will redirect
to Red Wing, Minnesota, but I also don't want to force this on people. My coach in India said
that wisdom cannot be scaled. Wisdom can only be shared in an individual one-on-one basis.
For me to send this bat signal out there, there are people that probably shouldn't be
integrating in hearing this because it's too much, but those people probably won't come back.
For those of you that are coming back, start talking to others about this. Find community.
I don't know how to tell you how to do that, where you are. Focus on your individual health and I'm
going to have recommendations on this in the future, though again, I'm no guru. I'm a client.
I'm learning this myself and I'm sure many of you already have a sense of the sacredness of nature
following this channel. Lots more to say. This is a long one. I'll talk to you next week.
Namaste. Thank you.
