without being also weird, go forth and be weird, right? I want your advice then on if someone is
willing to do some weird things and try to crazy up their life a little bit and control doses,
what would you recommend they do if they are pretty new to this whole thing and a fairly
rational person and want to dip in, but don't want to go straight to the sacrificing their
firstborn on the altar of Molly? I have a submission for the first thing. I want to see if David
agrees. Psychedelics. Yes, I was actually going to say that as well. Well, let's assume that this
is someone who doesn't want to do psychedelics for whatever reason, wants a more mystical,
nonchemically induced experience. Now, we can talk about your thing in the Temple of Egypt,
or in the Egyptian pyramid. Yeah, this is essentially the same idea. You need to have
an experience that is so strong that if you were not a rationalist, you could fall into the pit.
That's really the true answer. You need to have an experience that strong because then you can
empathize. You really get why people fall into it then. For me, I was visiting, I'm Egyptian,
and a few years ago I was lucky enough to get to go back to Egypt for the first time and visit a
bunch of my family there. One of my buddies had lent me a copy of the Egyptian Book of the Dead,
and it was in English. Well, I had a friend named Hong, who I play Pathfinder with occasionally,
who is an Egyptologist. While I was in Egypt, I exchanged photos from the Cairo Museum with him
translating one of the spells in there for me. So I did one of the tours and I got to be in the
center of the pyramid by myself. So I encanted an ancient Egyptian spell from the Book of the Dead
to imbibe a god into my body. I chose Thoth, the god who invented writing and magic,
because a god who invents books is probably the most rational of all gods.
And nothing really weird happened that night, but then every day, since then,
I think I've gotten a book. It's been two years. I have too many books. I have way too many books.
It is actually a legit problem. You've gotten a book every day for the last two years?
Yeah, legit. How many days does it take you to read a book?
More than one. Definitely an issue. Totally Southern Gothic right there.
At first, it was kind of a joke, but then there would be days I would go to the beach with my
family and I'd be like, okay, nothing's going to happen today. And then I'd literally find a book
sticking out of the sand. You realize you can throw away books, right?
I don't understand the words coming out of your mouth.
I didn't know you spoke Chinese. You know, I have many hidden talents.
But that was a small one. I actually do have a crazier story, which is I almost sacrificed a
goat once to Thor. I would feel really silly sacrificing something to Thor or really any of
the Nordic gods now just because there's been Marvel movies and other movies before that even.
At this point, they almost feel like a joke. I feel the opposite. They're definitely the
gods to be worshipping. Everyone's paying attention to them. You don't want to worship shitty,
non-popular gods like secondary ones. Do you think that the... I'm sorry, go ahead.
Oh, it's just like the Neil Gaiman American gods theory that gods are strong in proportion to how
many people are paying attention to them. Then do you think that the Thor of Asgard is
more empowered or pissed because everyone's worshipping the false idol, Chris Hemsworth?
As long as they're using the name Thor.
Oh, so that counts, okay. I wonder if the god of Abraham agrees with that, as long as you're
saying god. That's why this tradition is always sealing out god during sex, right? He's getting
fueled by all the sex magic. Oh my god, don't even get me started on how much magic the Catholic
church does. But if Helsing, the anime, has anything to say about this, they do all the magic.
Yes. So what happened was many years ago, I took psychedelics and a bunch of my friends,
we were at a hurricane party because there was a hurricane hitting the east coast.
That sounds like a responsible thing to do. We were, I was like 21 at the time. I wasn't making
good decisions. We all decided to run naked through the hurricane, and I remember doing so.
And legitimately stopping in the middle of the road as everyone ran in front of me, and I was
just like, this is not actually that bad of a storm. It was a thunderstorm, but I was like,
this was way overhyped. They were shutting down the city of Philadelphia and stuff,
and I looked up at the sky and I don't know why, but I looked at the sky and I literally screamed
Thor is a pussy. And then like every mortal in a mythological event where you insult a god,
I needed to be humbled. So every time I tried to take psychedelics for two or three years after
that, and I have multiple friends who can cite this literally every single time, terrible freak
weather, like six inches of snow coming out of nowhere, like torrential downpours in the middle
of sunny days. And I was like, oh man, I think I pissed off Thor. So I will say, well, I can't
necessarily advocate doing things that are dangerous. Doing something like running naked
through a hurricane at the age of 21. It just seems like a thing that you would remember for the rest
of your life. And it's just such a good bonding experience. It and honestly, I'm not saying
nobody would have done it if we thought we were truly at risk. Like if the storm was bringing
down trees and stuff, we definitely wouldn't have and we would have stayed indoors. But like the
very fact that it was a mild risk, but the biggest risk honestly was being seen nude less the storm
itself. Right, you could get some some felony charges for that. Could you get felony or is
that just Mr. Meener? And we could because we live next to a police station at the time.
Oh, good. We when I said no good decisions, I really meant it. Yeah. I worked at men's warehouse.
And I remember we were partying on the 4th of July and the weather was nice. And my friends were
like making fun of me and they're like, you've got to do something so Thor isn't pissed at you.
And I was like, I think I should sacrifice a goat to Thor. And this is very
did you try saying you're sorry first? It didn't work. Like gods don't care about your work.
I definitely did not want to do that first. But so side caveat, my family as Middle Easterners
has no problem with the slaughter of animals as long as it is for food. And I have heard many
people talk about barbecues as essentially like a burnt offering and a community ritual.
Like they're the same thing. So we also have an open air market. So I was like, I'm gonna be
serious about this. I taught I talked to my parents because I lived with them at the time. And I was
like, I'm gonna do this. And they're like, Yeah, just give us some goat meat. We don't care. And
I got all of this stuff ready. I had a goat named Delilah. You don't name your sacrificial goats.
I didn't name her. I got her with a name. God damn it. And then wouldn't accept the sacrifice
unless it hurts. So yeah. And then the day of it, like, like, torrentially downpour. And I'm
like, Well, I can't really have a bonfire and do this. So I guess Thor saying that I don't need to
do this. And like, so the next day at work, I had to call off for this. And my bosses were like,
how the sacrifice go because I am far too honest for my own good. And I was like, I told them what
happened. And they were like, David, you're just kind of like wimping out. And I was like, kind of,
yeah. And part of my job at men's warehouse is, you know, you get tuxedos back from a wedding,
and you have to like, open them and make sure everything's inside. Well, the very first tuxedo,
I open up the bag, and I hear some jingling at the bottom, like, did someone forget their keys?
And I go in the bottom and I pull out a set of cuff links. And they say Thor on them.
And I showed them to my boss. And he doesn't believe it.
For a worthwhile, like, if I didn't already trust you as a sensible person, this sounds
so made up, which is really, really cool. I will send you two people who were there. One of them
was my boss, and he didn't believe it. Like he was next to me when it happened. And he's like,
this is not real. I think this is outstanding. This is, I think I had this realization a few
years ago when I was talking to my uncle, and he has telling me some crazy stories. And I had said,
if I didn't know you for a trustworthy person, I'd say that's bullshit. And I think when I
thought about it, I think that's like a really flattering thing to say. And I wasn't going to
say that about me. I want my life to be so ridiculous that somebody's like, I think that's
bullshit. And like, I totally get that you don't believe me, but it really happened.
Yeah. And so, and look, they were the cufflinks from Marvel, right? Like, there are
Avengers themed cufflinks for a groomsman's party, and I guess this groomsman just left
his in the bag. But if you're going to believe in probability manipulation and signals from gods,
that's about as clear as they get. That's when you and Thor were homies again.
Yeah, at least we were neutral, which is the way I like it.
I gotta say, while those are awesome stories, I think there's also something to be said for
things that you can do easily at home. I am reminded of a conversation I had through email
with someone after the episode on Ritual with Vivian, where they said, yeah, I mean, I don't
believe in magic at all, but I do it all the time. Like, sometimes if I really want to do something,
I'll just say, I'm doing this thing, I'm doing this thing, I'm doing this thing six times. And
as I'm doing it, I'll get out my Sharpie and just draw a little pentagram on the back of my hand,
six times over. And it really works for me. And I was like, you know, that's cool, because that is
something easy that you can do at home that you don't have to go out and find a goat and get
a bonfire going and everything. And there's something to be said for like the little
Jesdan Files practical magics. Then my role of practical magics is I'll send you guys two more
links from RuneSoup, but make sigils, you can do it at home with pencil and paper. And more
importantly, and I said it before, they work even if you don't believe them, which is I think
the most interesting part, like if it's really fooling your perceptions, it's doing it at a
very deep level, because I've seen people who are skeptical do them and then get the result,
which is really amazing when you think about it. Like it's like the placebo effect worked
while you looked at someone and showed them the box that said sugar pill.
Well, that's the crazy thing about placebos, they do work even when you know they're placebos.
Well, in that case, more placebo mancy for everyone.
Yeah.
I tell you what, you've convinced me, I will, I'll check out your, your sigil writing thing,
and I will, I will do one for science and I'll report back next time we chat.
Because if I can, if I can make things, if I can fix a couple of little things, you know,
that are probably fixable from the inside of my mind for 10 minutes of effort,
I'm all about that easy path.
I mean, the best technique, and I do think this is what they call a shoaling and robo fishing.
So a shoal is like a group of fish. So you make a group of sigils all at once.
And robo fish is they found out that you can't control an individual fish in a shoal.
But if you put a robot fish in a shoal, and you control that one,
you can get the whole shoal to move, right?
So you make five sigils of things that you want to happen, and then you make a sixth
sigil of something that's already true in your life to attract it into reality.
And all that's a really easy one that anyone can do, just set it up for like one week.
And I'm, you know, they're always fun to hear.
One of my favorites was a guy did like one where he did a sigil that wanted to lose weight
and fix his relationship. And then another one to like get a better job.
And it turns out he got a better job that was closer to his house.
So he could walk home every day and have lunch with his partner and walk back.
And because he wasn't eating out anymore, he lost weight, his relationship improved,
and he got more money.
Thanks.
Yeah, it's a hard drug to do with results, right?
It's also handy that if you do five sigils at once, you know,
you only need one of them to hit for it to work.
Exactly. If you're going to try to fool yourself, use your brain and be clever about it.
You're a very smart person. It takes a lot of work to fool yourself.
Oh, I believe the exact opposite is true. And I think Feynman is the one who said you,
you, the greatest fear is not to be fooled. And you are the easiest person to fool yourself
or something along those lines. I will have to look up the exact quote, but yeah, I think
fooling yourself is the easiest thing to do and much easier than it is to fool other people.
But you know, sometimes you can use that power for good.
I think the quote was the first principle is that you must not fool yourself and you are
the easiest person to fool.
There we go. Thank you.
Yeah.
Steven with the research.
Fast on the keyboard.
This is like, I think there's two levels of this conversation we'll be taking place on.
We're like, everybody's having this conversation super seriously and they believe it with magic
capital M. And then there's like this laid back. It's like, you know, no man,
it's kind of like meditation and like focusing, you know, your own energy, lowercase energy,
not the magic energy, just your own efforts towards life betterment and looking out for
positive things and you know,
you know what it is?
No, this, this, this is straight up perfect example of Montin Baileying.
Yes.
It's the whole, no man, it's just looking for positive vibes and stuff. And then, you know,
sneaking in the back door. Yes, but you can actually control the fabric of the universe.
So only if only one of us actually step back and said that, right?
Well, it's a societal Montin Bailey. There's a few people that are like, yeah, it's just for
fun. And then there's the people that are like, no, you can, you know, remove your
fatins and see through walls. All you got to do is give Hubbard's to your money.
That's why I think that a sense of history helps. Like all four of the things that I
mentioned that magic claims it can do are not really the type of superpower things that people
think of today. Like I don't know, man.
Astral projection is just kind of like lying, like even exciting people who think they can
actually astral project are essentially just meditating and imagining stuff or lying down.
Yeah. Like I'm okay. This might be me over tolerating seriousness or silliness,
but I'm pretty okay with people who do silly things that don't infringe on others and don't
hurt them. Like everyone's entitled to waste some of their own time. God knows I do.
Totally. And if you're wasting it in a way that turns out to be productive for you, you know,
focused meditation or something, you know, it's hard to say that it's a waste, right?
If you're relaxed afterwards and you feel better and things are, you know,
you're making a concerted effort or something. You know, like what if your outcome from doing
this was like, you know what, I do have the energy to go to the gym today because I felt,
I feel like I do because I feel like my ritual worked or something, right?
I think the thing that the thing that really kind of
worries me is that this sort of thing is okay. Oh God, I'm going to sound like such an
elitist prick saying this, but with that caveat, this sort of thing is like okay for us where we're
like, yeah, man, you know, we're just helping to, to motivate ourselves and whatever. It's not real.
And I do believe that, but there's also this person that I don't see very often.
At this point in the episode, I detailed some really wacky beliefs of someone I know.
He doesn't listen to the podcast, but it still seemed kind of mean in retrospect.
So in the interest of not outing anyone, we're removing the details.
Just let it be known that the beliefs are really very weird and not supported by any physical
evidence. And that's like, even if there's those of us who can accept. That's a lot. That's a lot.
Even for me. Oh dude, it is straight up wackiness. And that the problem is that even though there's
people who can like take this magic into their lives and use it to like
help themselves in small ways to be more motivated, the, the, I feel there's a like the,
