And they're, you know, it's just going through one of the most traumatic events a human can go
through. I hope you're ready to go to McDonald's on Wednesday. Yeah, seriously, there should be a
period of like penance and asking for forgiveness or doing what one needs to do to show that, you
know, I am leaving behind the place of war and coming back to the place of civilization.
And think about how much that would probably alleviate survivor's guilt. Like I bet you
that's probably one of the other functions. So that's actually something that brings us back to
Jordan Peterson. I can do this too. Specifically, this is something that Peterson talks about badly.
Like I have some criticisms of the way Peterson communicates. But Nassim Taleb really does it
better, which is to say that our ancestors were very smart, the ones who survived because things
were tougher. And they had a lot more free time to be bored and to think. So when you see a lot of
the weird social institutions and practices that we don't make sense from our perspective now,
it's not that they were crazy. I would say 95% of the time they were doing what I would call
ecological rationality. They were doing something that made sense in the time, because it had a
good purpose. And maybe that the context has changed and they haven't changed the ritual yet.
And that does deserve criticism. But try not to throw out the baby with the bathwater.
So how do we do this without going crazy and, you know, buying into the belief that, I don't know,
God hates fags or whatever it is nowadays that that is a crazy talk, you know,
that I can heal someone's wounds by touching them.
I mean, one of my first things when I got into all of this stuff is I refused to believe anything
that told me to disbelieve science. Like I was allowed to add on top of it, but I wasn't allowed
to contradict anything that was there. And I think that should still be fundamental to anyone's way
of looking at the world. If your way of looking at the world says, Oh, yeah, I can just disregard
the rules of biology and entropy, then probably not correct. I have another
concern, I guess, regarding the pseudoscientific interpretation of this, because, like,
the, what you mentioned earlier on about probabilistically deter, you know,
influencing the future. That reminds me of that. It was a terrible book. Rhonda Burns wrote The
Secret in like the mid 2000s. And that if you're lucky enough to not know what that is.
I do. And I wish I didn't. And I hope your audience doesn't.
I think everyone knows what the secret is. Yeah, well, it was a, it was widely touted by Oprah. It
was a big deal. They made some stupid movie about it. The idea is that if you basically,
if you believe in what you want hard enough, if you visualize it, sometimes the extent of
making a vision board or a sigil, then you could make it happen. And conversely,
when bad things happened to you, that's because you didn't want them not to happen enough.
Or like it was your fears overtaking you.
You guys, you guys know that feeling you get when you read a pop science article that talks
about biases. And you're just like, Oh, wow, this is dumbed down to the point where it's no
longer valuable. It might actually be confusing people and giving them the wrong view.
I can one up that my company made it mandatory for every developer to watch this stupid one hour
course on machine learning and AI. Because it's like, Hey, these are these big buzzwords
going around. How is machine learning and AI influenced this? And it was very clearly written
by somebody who, well, if it was written by somebody who knew anything about any of this,
it was not, it was, it was edited far too much. So it was just this bullshit list of buzzwords.
So it might be like that. But yeah, that is, that's how wizards and people in the
community feel when they read the secret. That is the closest way I can describe it. Like,
even if you were the most powerful wizard believing that they were correct, like, you don't
control every moment of everything in your life. And mostly I hate the woman who wrote the secret
because do you guys remember that giant tsunami that hit India? Yeah, yeah, they asked her about
and she's like, Well, I guess they were putting out tsunami waves. And anyone who says that can
go fuck themselves. Like I have no pity for such a human. And I am really, really upset by it.
But it also has the terrible fallback of blaming people for things that happened to them. You
know, like if somebody's raped, well, they most have not, not wanted it enough to make it not
happen. Yeah, like victim blaming is a really disgusting worldview. Like you can push things
a little bit at best. Like, if anything, I think that the actual people I've communicated with
in that community are really humble about the things they believe they can do, which is good.
Like even if they can't do any of the things, it's best that they believe in small things
than that they can fly or something. As long as I go ahead, I was just gonna make fun of something
on my shelf. But we can do that some other time. I was gonna just say real quick. So David, if
you're, if you're, if you're incantation to make this this windfall of money come through,
if it's in the end the resulting phone call you got, if that deal fell through, would that be
evidence against the efficacy of your wizardry? Or would it mean that you didn't believe hard enough?
No, it would, it would really mean that like I was doing something wrong. Well,
would it mean that your spell was wrong or that the, that the enterprise is mistaken?
I don't have to do experiments and try to figure that out.
Like I was-
If you start experimenting and get something that you can, that you can show us,
I'm really curious, but I don't know, I don't know if you need to put on it too bad.
And so like-
No, no, honestly, the biggest, the biggest magical scientific undertaking I'm doing,
that's a weird sentence to say, is I've been doing a 22 card tarot read for myself
once a week for like six months. I'm gonna keep doing it for a few years and I'm gonna do a
statistical analysis and see if there's anything compared to major life events of mine. And if
there's no pattern there that I'll just just like, you know, it'll be a fun little silly project.
Well, you should publish the results in either case.
Yeah, I really enjoy the tarot because Vivian, you know, the one we had on our ritual podcast,
she reads tarot sometimes professionally. And the thing about it is she's also a
author, science fiction fantasy author, right? And when you see her lay down the tarot,
you realize, oh my god, what she's doing is creating a story on the fly from,
you know, this random list of prompts, the deck that's given to her.
And it's awesome because she is-
She's such a good storyteller that when she reads someone's tarot,
she always puts together something really interesting.
And since humans don't have really that much variety in their lives, like everyone is struggling
to make money and to find someone they love and to be accepted by their peers. And everyone has these
fears and insecurities. And so like, you always play to a few key themes and you change the details
based on what the cards are drawn. And it just works beautifully. It is amazing. She can read
tarot with cards against humanity cards. She's done it before. Yeah. And it worked. And I was like,
this is fucking fantastic. And I need to obviously visit and see that because that's
something that I've never even heard of. That's incredible.
Oh dude, it was the best. She did it to me. And at one point I just like got up and walked away.
I was like, fuck you and your stupid cards doing everything about my life perfectly.
But I don't, I don't in any way shape or form believe in any sort of supernatural stuff. I was
just like, this is some incredible storytelling. And I wish you were making more money for this
because damn, that's some, some highly good skill. I think about it like this. So you guys know that
if you get your brain bisected and the two halves are not in communication, that you can
essentially communicate with the both of them separately, right? Yes. Right. It's both fascinating
and terrifying because then you're like, what the fuck if there's two personalities living in my
body and I don't feel it? And oh my God. And yes, the real kicker, there's probably two in there
right now. You just can't hear them both. Well, that's why you do tarot. That's why you do tarot.
Think about it like this. The part of your brain that is older, in my opinion, and the part that
Jordan Peterson talks about a lot is the subconscious symbolic part. And it operates in
story tropes and images. That's how it communicates. And that's why if you read the right passage and
the right book at the right time in your life, it'll just like hit you like a ton of bricks and
you're not even sure why. Because it's communicating something that this part of you is trying to
tell you, but it doesn't use language. So it's really hard for you to get it. The tarot is an easy
way for that part of your brain to communicate to you. By doing exactly that, you're giving it
like essentially 72 tropes. Each card represents a trope or an idea and then you just put them in
order. And then that part of your brain gets to imprint the story it wants to tell you using those
as like its pieces. But so how do we going really quickly to the book that I have on the shelf?
I feel there's always this danger because I have this book on my shelf because it was just so
beautiful. I found it in a thrift store. And it starts, it's called Busting Loose from the Money
Game. And it's supposed to be one of those financial independence books, right? Okay. And
it starts out talking about how money isn't like, it doesn't have a, about the illusion of money,
right? It says the human game is a game created and played entirely in the consciousness, which
is true, right? Like the economy is humans working together and can essentially agreeing that this
money has value because we'll accept it as a payment. And it goes from there, after a while,
it gets to start saying things that are more controversial, such as numbers were created
specifically to give you an experience of limitation. And that's their real purpose.
Wait, what? First of all, yeah, I don't think that's actually the purpose of numbers.
As far as I know, numbers were invented in ancient Mesopotamia to keep track of debt.
So they do have like track of things. Yeah, to keep track of money and value of like sheep and
shit. Oh, but it gets better. It gets to the point where they start using some of their own
terminology for these things, like they refer to the field as I guess some sort of analog for
markets or whatever. And it gets to the point where it says, the illusion of money comes from a
pattern in the field, and you have the power to create any pattern, apply power to any pattern
and pop any pattern into your hologram, which is how you view the world, appearing to be real.
Can you have anything you want? Absolutely. You have anything you want. The only limits are
your your own experience and and what you see in your hologram. And I'm like, you literally just
went to craziness. And it's, I believe that is that is always one of the problems. And why people
have, you know, such problems with these sorts of things is is the worry that we're going to get
starting to talk like crazy people and believing crazy things. And that's a very reasonable thing
to be worried about. I really wish I had a better answer. But mine, like the way I deal with it is
I simply have people who are touchstones who don't who have their own crazy things they believe that
I keep them in check in. And they help me keep myself in check when I start to go too deep down
the rabbit hole and worrying about the Martian Wars. Yeah. By the way, that's a great conspiracy
theory. I don't actually have I've never seen a good rebuttal of it either, which is why I like
it so much. I've never even heard of this Martian Wars thing. Oh my god. So the basis of it is that
there is an isotope xenon 115. I'm gonna double check what it is. But there is an isotope of a
noble gas that only appears during nuclear fission reactions. Like it's a byproduct. It doesn't happen
in nature any other place. And the entire atmosphere of Mars is coated in it, almost like a bomb the
size of the Empire State Building went off and literally eradicated everything that was on that
planet in a giant nuclear holocaust. And like it's a very strange one. And I like the I think
their chemistry is real. Like I believe that chemicals in there. And I just don't think NASA
has a good answer or doesn't know yet why that happened. Like I'm sure there's a perfectly
good natural explanation. But it's a fun conspiracy theory you've got to admit. Yeah.
I really wish I had a better answer for you, Enya. The only one I can say is make sure you have friends
who are both willing to entertain your craziness and who have their different craziness so that
they won't let you go too far. Oh, I see. I have to have friends now. Okay, so yeah, that is a bird
and I'm going to play songs with a listener. The only real thing I'll say is I sent you guys
three links. The Slate Star Codex one is probably the one that's closest to how I feel a lot of magic
on a metaphysical level works. Did you guys read that? That was the I know I have because
I've read every Slate Star Codex post. Eternal love said the cactus person. Oh, okay. Yeah.
See, he wouldn't talk to the others. Like I said, DMT.
Yeah, like the newest brand of chaos magic is being described as space shamanism and says that
like, okay, here's one of those weird things that you learn and I don't have a good answer to it,
which is ayahuasca invented in the Amazon is a mixture of DMT plant and then an MAOI inhibitor
and they grow in different parts of the jungle and you have to cook the two of them in a pretty
complex way in order to nullify everything except for the two chemicals you want. And when they asked
the Amazonians, like, how did you figure out this very complex and extremely like rare? Like
there's 26,000 plants in the Amazon. How did they know to mix these two and one of them is like a
root of a plant? And their answer was the plants told us. Well, I mean, that's because they don't
know it was someone deep in their history that did it. It I would really be curious to see the
combinatorics odds on that because it seems way outside the bounds of someone who isn't aware
of how to do it ahead of time. Well, like we talked about people people were bored and had a lot of
free time back then. That's true. You know what? You're mashing two plants, you're mashing every
combination of plants together that you can't. You know what? There was probably like one weird
there was just one really weird dude who was like, I'm bored. I don't really like living that much.
Let's see what we got. Dude, and there is so much motivation to find the next good thing that gets
you high. You know what? I believe I believe Scott said like that the the two major advancements
in the fields of medical psychiatry in the past several decades have come from hippies trying
to find new ways to get high. I mean, I would. Yeah, I'm trying to think back over my psychology
history and that seems pretty accurate from what I've seen ketamine and mushrooms.
Yeah, I'm really excited. Maps is doing good work. They finally got approval.
Oh, the multi-clinical area association for psychedelic research.
Yeah, excellent. Those are the legit ones, right? That they're going to hopefully be able to find
just finished round two clinical trials with mushrooms for PTSD. Excellent.
Yeah, I think that that's another value of the weird. And so you've read the Slate Star Codex
where he talks about the dangers of early psychedelic users taking too much and being
permanently too open. I think everyone who starts to dive into the weird should be forced to read
that article first just to be aware of that's where you're going. And it's fun to go there,
but it's not good to stay there. It's not a safe or functional place to stay. But there is a lot
of value in being willing to explore and entertain a false mind frame and realizing that even while
it is not true, there are things that this way of looking at the world reveals that are still valuable.
Man, that went way less controversially than I thought it would. So that's good.
Well, yeah, I basically agree with you. It takes being weird and being willing to entertain crazy
shit to make breakthroughs sometimes. I can tell you about my magical incidences. I did a ritual
in the pyramids of Egypt. I want to hear about that in one second, but I want to draw a listen to
something that, no, I do, but this was related to a post that was just on the Denver Less Wrong
Facebook page about Ozzy and Scott Alexander disagree about whether or not you should diversify
your charitable portfolio, basically. On the one hand, there is one best cause to give your money
to. So you should be doing that. It seems pretty ironclad. And then Ozzy points out that you can't
really be sure if it's the best one. And even if it is, what if they're not handling their money well,
maybe it's an odds game and it happens not to work out. So you should probably diversify. Plus,
if you diversify, you can feel better about giving. So that's a good instrumental reason to do it that
way. And I kind of come down right in the middle because that's how I tend to do things when I
have a strong opinion that I think Scott's probably right that there is one ultimate goal and that's
where all your money should go. But if you're not going to give all your money to one charity,
because it doesn't feel as rewarding or it feels too risky, and the only way you'll give anything
is to diversify, then I'm all for that, right? Whatever gets you to do the thing. And so,
similar to this, or the reason I thought about it was, and hold on, my brain's crashing.
Yeah, doing weird stuff. If that's what gets you going, if you're not going to do anything cool
