telling the lady, as Jesus did in the gospel, sell everything you own and follow me because
the end is nigh, I don't think that works for most people. There'll be some fanatics that are
convinced by that, but for the most part, I think people want to have a society that they can live
their lives in and so I don't think an existential threat like that is a good thing to do. I think
we need community first. I think you need both, but like the way I view it is you kind of need
something to kick people's ass to get them in gear, but if you don't have a community that's real and
genuine once that fades away because that will eventually fade, like it's going to take years
of hard work, you're not going to feel existential dread every minute of every day working there,
talking to people or hanging out and drinking a coffee. Like if there's not a community there,
then you become a death cult. So I do think you're right. You need both. I think you need
something that is external, that is a motivation for everyone, but you also need an in community
worth fighting for. And it's just about every author will tell you nowadays because everyone
writes fan fiction. It's where you learn fan fiction is so much easier to write not because
of the world or the characters or anything that's already there, but because you post it up online
and you get instant feedback and people saying, I enjoyed reading this. Thank you. And that is
what gets you going from day to day, you know, whereas writing a novel where you're just at it
for months alone and no one's going to see it. And then there's months of editing and then there's
years before it hits the presses and it is, it does not sustain you at all motivationally. Whereas,
you know, writing a chapter for your fanfic and putting that up online, you get that dopamine
hit of people saying thanks immediately. It's so rewarding. Oh man, that sounds
interesting. You know, Naseem Talib actually did that for his last book. He would post up like
chapters with no chapter number or page numbers, but randomly he would post them on Facebook
for months before his book was published. Oh, nice. Yeah, I really liked it. Skin in the game
was good. I think it's the first for it's the first mathematical formalization of ethics I've
ever seen. Oh, fancy. Yeah, like, essentially, the more risk that you shove away from yourself
onto other people, the worse human you are. Oh, I like that. Yeah. And the more risk you
take onto yourself and save from other people, the better you are. Oh, but then you can collapse
under the weight of that. That's why everyone loves a martyr. You just described what a martyr
complex does. Well, we are over an hour and a half. So we kind of got to wrap things up at this
point. Sounds good. It's late where I am. Yeah. Yeah, right. You're over on these coasts.
Thanks for rocking to midnight with us. I realized that I haven't said anything in like half an hour
and I think I have a total of like 10 minutes of dialogue in this whole episode. I find this
happening off it. No, no, no, no. I was just gonna say I find this happening a lot when we have
interesting guests on and especially if you know, I was just here to like, you know, keep the
conversation going. But I just like came back and listen, but I had a really good time even though
I wasn't very active here. I apologize too. I tend to get like carried away and all excited about
shit. No, no, no. I think I think I have enough like autonomy in the conversation to grab it if I
really wanted to seize it, at least for a minute here and there. But really for the most part,
I was having a good time hanging out. I wanted to ask really quick though, David. So you've
mentioned 12, 12 rules for living or 12 rules for life and the same Taleb to me a bunch.
And so I don't have a huge reading budget because it takes me so long. So
who should I read first, Taleb or Peterson? I like Peterson. I like Peterson. But the truth is
he's probably not going to reveal anything to you that is new. If you have the opportunity to
borrow 12 rules, do that, but don't buy it. Buy Taleb. Taleb will like fill in
gaps in your map or a better way to say it is in the map and territory analogy,
Taleb is the best person I've ever seen describing the blank spaces on your map.
I've never seen anything like that's what his books are, a meditation on the blank spaces in
the map and the ethics and how to deal with it. Excellent. Yeah, I'm captivated. Sweet.
Yeah. That sounds like a strong recommend there. And he's just pretty hilarious. He taught me my
first French phrase that I remember. Pet-a-beth. Which is? A face that invites a slap.
Everyone knows you know someone. As soon as I said that word, everyone who's listening to this
thought of a face, because everyone knows immediately. Everyone thought of a jeep pie.
Yeah. Because he just has that face, right? I'm not a violent person.
You just want to slap him. I know one guy who went to my friend's college at Bucknell. And as
far as I know, he was a very friendly person. I have no beef with him. But every time I saw him,
I'm like, oh my God, you make me want to become like a college bully. Why? Why is this happening?
I don't know if this says something about me, but I did not have a face that came to mind.
Oh, you're a better person than me. I think that says that. Or maybe more boring. I don't know.
You need more enemies. No, no, I do not. Okay. I promise I won't give you any of mine.
I think we can talk up to you being a better person. Yeah, sure.
Don't throw in those enemy sigils at me. Okay. Fair point. Okay. Thank you guys for having me on
again. I appreciated it. And I'll let you guys go. Peace. Oh, before you go, is there anything you
want to promote or plug? Well, I heard what your brother was saying earlier, Stephen. And if anyone
out there would like to help me coordinate, I would like to get a less wrong meetup going in
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. I've tried to look at them. I believe there's one in Philly that
meets like once a quarter, but I can't meet there. So if anyone is in Southeast Pennsylvania,
hit up, hit me up. And if you want to buy a house, I'll put my information.
How can I hit you up? Give us a quick email address. Okay.
Okay. You can reach me at dydavidusif at gmail.com. Okay. And we'll put a link up on our
podcast on the webpage as well. Sweet. And I'll just say this really quick in response to your
thing about community starting that I'm hardly a person with any real experience or knowledge here,
but really, then this is the rule for life that I've been articulating for myself too. And it's
kind of like Peterson, super cliched, but also super true that the one thing that's
possible from doing anything is just not actually trying, not actually doing it. They just think,
oh, it won't work, or oh, it'll be too hard. Throw something up on Meetup, go hang out a
coffee shop by yourself for two first weekends, and then people will start showing up, right?
Or maybe if nothing happens after a month, then start marketing more heavily. But
I bet there are people who look on SlateStar Codex or wherever they have those maps,
and like, man, I wish something was in the area. And if you put something on the map,
people will come, right? You're right. I will do that tomorrow. That is a very sensible thing I can
do. And I said that on the air, just so if anyone else is thinking the same thing, go out there and
do it. There's not, there's not much to it. I, you know, ask anybody in Denver, I don't do anything
to coordinate this community other than throw the events online. So anyway, that was my two cents.
And now I've gotten my mandatory five minutes of talking in this episode, so.
