it's sort of like a not taking a vaccine sort of thing. Sure, we're okay, but the rest of society
suffers because now the people who are more vulnerable, who have a compromised magnetic
immune system are buying into the wholesale magic is real and I can fly and stuff.
And that's the kind of things that like, you know, am I hurting the rest of society because
most people are not as rational and will be sucked into the, the actual seeing the future magic?
That is, this is Colorado is a weird placement.
I'm determining from here on the east coast.
There's people like that on the east coast too, they're everywhere.
Oh yeah, they definitely are.
I know several of them.
I can see where you're coming from and I don't want to be party to hurting people,
but at some point I just have to believe that if it wasn't magic, I don't know,
maybe they'd all be Mormon.
Like I, I believe that the flaw that makes them susceptible to that memology
would have, they would be infected by something one way or another.
Crazy's got to be cray.
Yeah, and it's not like to be fair to the wider population.
It's a lot.
Like, I don't know.
I've been reading the sequences on and off and trying to integrate rationality into my life for
like six years.
And I would say I'm, if the martial arts metaphor is working, I'm just about to leave white belt.
It's really, really hard.
Yeah.
Oh no, I, yeah, it is very difficult.
I find myself failing constantly.
I mean, I'm now at the point where I know when I'm failing constantly.
Which I think is, is maybe, maybe I don't know how the belts work in, in martial arts,
but I feel like learning the moves and knowing, you know, your stances and stuff
is what it takes to get out of white belts, right?
I know I'm torturing this metaphor, but like, I feel like you're not giving yourself enough credit.
You know, I don't think that we can all run around like Harry, James Potter, Evans, Varys,
or Professor Quarrow and be, you know, these, these beacons of rationality that are constantly
running, you know, just crushing it on a rationality judo level, right?
But I think it's like, all right, when crunch time happens, I know that I can set aside some time
and actually think about this in a way that I now have tools to approach this problem in a more
rigorous and reliable way, right?
It's, it's true.
And it does help to form some habits as well.
Yeah.
Like, I mean, I think a lot of them, you know, you don't give yourself credit for,
but you, you consider alternate viewpoints.
You think of something that, you know, you come down on a position really hard,
and yet you still think, okay, have I thought of this from all angles?
And, you know, what could change my mind?
Those are moves that most people don't know.
And, you know, I think I mentioned this before, but one of those examples when we had Navinon,
we're talking about marriage, and he had asked you, hey, is there anything that, you know,
is there any circumstance where you'd still get married?
And you're like, yeah, if I had a close friend who needed my medical insurance,
you had an answer ready, you'd already thought of it.
Like you, that showed that you had thought through this from several angles and that you
didn't, you didn't like bottom line think, I hate this, I'm going to write 30 arguments above it,
right?
Right.
So I, I don't know, I don't know if I, I don't know who among us has the,
has the power to grant you a blue belt, but
This is one of those.
This is actually where I think what I would like to explore in the future.
I think magic has a lot of techniques for hacking your brain into getting you to do behaviors
and changing the way you look at the world.
And I think that when I was last on with you, Stephen, I was talking about how I wish there
was a set of techniques that people could learn first, like that think through every,
every position one and then learn the theory behind it in the sequences later.
So I wish there was a way to extract those useful ways of hacking the brain to getting
more rationalist thinking, but I'm not sure how to do it yet.
I have heard that about magic before too, that it is good for hacking those sorts of things.
If you find out that sort of thing, or like just even as you start making progress along
these lines, you should let us know we can keep in contact and, you know, touch back on this.
Yeah, it's like one of the ones I try to do regularly as a magic
action is I try to collect the oldest like material I can from my alter and I just keep
like a little pile of rocks. Like I have a rock from the pyramids of the Egypt. I have a meteorite.
Wait a minute. Did you steal a rock from the pyramids?
I just picked it up and put it in my pocket.
It was on the ground and then you're not supposed to take those because then if
everyone does that there aren't any rocks left, right?
No, that thing is huge. Everyone could easily take a rock the size I took and there'd be a
lot of pyramids left. It was very intimidating.
Well, all righty then.
I have a meteorite and it sounds like a silly rock collection it is, but it's a way of
representing to myself like history is huge. You are in a very small slice of it and that
is a humbleness reminder. So when I look at it, I'm like, okay,
what am I worried about right now that is probably not a big deal and what should I be
worried about in the long term? It's a refocusing of what's important and it's a way I just like
built that memetic habit into my magical worship.
I like that a lot. I also like that you like rocks too. I don't have a big collection,
but I have a handful of ones that I really like. I have a friend who brought me back
a piece of igneous rock from Hawaii and it's, you know, I don't know how old it is, but it's,
you know, it could be just a few decades or even a few years old. My brother brought me back,
I love this. It's a small piece of cobblestone from a road in Prague that he went to in high
school. That absolutely had to be not legit, dude.
I don't know if it was a crux of the road that now everything's hitting this pothole or if it
was found nearby, but part of it was worn smooth and then he brought me back a rock from the beach
of Ireland and, you know, old coins are kind of similar to me too, right, where
there's this sense of history to it. I think that's really cool.
Yeah, so people, okay, so I'm going to give you now what I believe is the definition of ritual
and ritual is that which is done with symbolic intention because you can brush your teeth,
but if you make the very act of cleaning your body, a ritualistic thing is like you
purify your mind to prepare the day, that's what changes brushing your teeth from a habit
to a ritual. It's the way you approach it that changes the context of it.
See, you could have saved us 45 minutes on that one episode.
Yeah. People are ritualistic creatures. Like the way we start denoting humans have become
intelligent is we have like art and jewelry at our gravesites. We have rituals. We are
homo ritualists and for whatever reason, they really stick in our brains. So if you're going to,
if you know that you can hack your brain using ritual, then you should build rituals and patterns
in your life that will hack the correct things into you. I like this. I really actually want to
start implementing this now. So one of the chaos magic procedures is you're supposed to find your
patron god and goddess and in a way, it's almost forcing you to decide like what kind of, if I
have a masculine and a feminine part to my personality, what describes those parts of me
and it's also kind of aspirational. Like who do you want to be? I have friends who's like my
female part is Kalima and she's like death goddess and dark and I'm like, okay, that's
that's a decision you're saying to yourself. Yeah, someone watched the temple of doom as a
teenager. Yeah, I chose Athena and the monkey king because I wanted a trickster and a goddess of
wisdom and so that's what I want to think about every day when I go about my life and I think
that's what religion does for people in the same way. You intentionally focus your mind on being
like a person like Christ, a person who's willing to sacrifice and hold others above themselves
and that helps you become like that in a small way. But per the warning earlier, like some people
take that up to up to 11 and believe that they can't draw that wisdom without also believing
a bunch of really weird and wrong shit, right? I don't know. Yeah, you're absolutely right and
I wish there was a way to better filter but I think of it more like an engine can work even
with a little bit of gunk in it, but if there's too much gunk, the engine is definitely not going
to function like you and I don't know how to figure out where that is because I think the
common parlance would be to say like there he would be below the sanity waterline and honestly
let's be if we're being very frank here, if someone said the things that you told me he said
Emyah is like let's go 60 years ago. He would have been below the sanity waterline as far as most
of society was concerned. Yeah. And I'm not saying that this person is insane. I'm saying that
this person probably functions very well, but is not society no longer says that that is
below the line and I have mixed opinions about this. Oh, yeah. And I'm not like I feel bad because
I don't really have room to judge and I'm aware of this, but I can't help myself from noticing that
and just thinking like this is like we just got gay marriage a few years ago. Society is moving
really fast. I'm sorry. I really like your podcast with that guy from was it West Virginia?
Oh, yes, yes. Joshua. Joshua is a person who also lives in the East Coast and who has gone to
West Virginia many times for kayaking. I understand the viewpoint of the part of the country who
feels reticent about all these social changes. No, I think I think overall it's a change for
the better. I mean, he's not harming anyone. And the only person he might be harming is himself.
And even then I'm not sure how much that's harming him. I guess what he's his his efforts are no
longer being funneled into something more socially useful by a church. But on the other hand,
lots of times churches would funnel people's efforts into very destructive and bad things.
So on the whole, I prefer things this way where sure, people have their own crazy bullshit,
but at least the churches aren't around, you know, telling gay people that they're awful
and they can't marry and all the bullshit things that churches have done since time immemorial.
Yeah. I mean, I think you're right more anti organized religion than you are.
I think you're generally right. I mean, my I feel bad for organized religions like Catholicism
and Buddhism, because they are desperately trying to update themselves in a way that is useful.
And I think that if society was moving a little bit slower, or if they had started this like a
decade ago, there might be a much better place for them in the world. But it just doesn't seem
likely at this point. And it makes me a little sad.
Like, because you're right, I don't disagree with you. I do think that there's going to be
backlash in terms of like how fast we're moving. But the general trend is definitely
a positive one. But there are very few effective super organisms in society. I listened to your
last one. And I checked out that there are very few effective super organisms. And the Catholic
Church at its height was one of the most powerful in history. Oh, hell yeah. And they really had
their shit down. It's really, really impressive when you can like, think about a single person
saying a word and then imagine like more wealth than currently resides in Africa, changing hands
and an entire city being built, which is a thing that happened like two or three times
during the reign of like the popes, which is crazy to me, like just pointing and saying,
I want a city here. And then people moved there and live there and started doing it.
Oh, yeah, no, there's, I don't know, you kind of think we had some more. It's hard because you
think, oh, how much good could these super organisms do if they were pointed the right
way? You know, we could be solving so many problems. But then the trap is, you know,
sure, everything would be great in a dictatorship if I was the dictator, right? But I'm never the
dictator. It's always the guy with the crappy ideas as the old cliche goes. First of all,
I've thought about dictatorship and realized at a young enough age that I'd be a really good
face man, but I should never be a dictator. I think the only way you can incentivize super
organisms to be effective is if they are competing against other super organisms in a larger ecosystem.
I generally go with the ecosystem answer whenever I'm confused by a behavior,
which I guess is like something that rationality definitely taught me to do.
Do you think the rationalists are something I think about every now and then
seeding too much ground by being so disorganized and not?
Absolutely. Yes. Yes, 100%. I wish that there was a way that we could organize and point
ourselves at a goal because I generally find that whenever I meet a group of rationalists,
I'm very good with my words and I'm kind of clever, but I'm generally the least intelligent person
there. And if I'm being very honest, I don't think I'm dumb. And if we could get that money people
with that kind of intelligence pointed at a goal, I don't know what the upper limits actually could
be. How many people do you think if you posted something on less wrong or if we
decided to do something would get involved? I genuinely have no idea.
Probably not all that many. I mean, I think the largest thing that has ever been done in
a single organization is when Eleazar founded Miri and that's something. It's an organization
that gets a decently large budget, can support several researchers now, but it's not all that
big in the grand sphere. I mean, more than anything, it's the fact that they have incentivized other
organizations to also get on board and start paying attention to this that it has had the
greater effect than anything they've done directly. And I think that is the one largest
rationalist center of focus right now. We're not a very focused people. And I think that's okay
because we are distrusting of authority as we should be, as we kind of have to be in order to
get to rationalism in the first place, but it makes it tough to form the sort of superorganism
that gets a lot done and competes in the ecological sphere of other leviathans.
I mean, I think that the existential threat of what the AI problem that you'd Kowski points
out in the sequences is one of those things that when you get what he's implying, your stomach
drops. And even if you are somehow persuaded to believe it's not going to be as bad as he describes,
the idea is always there, like the existential dread is now permanently implanted into you.
And that kind of thing I think can motivate people very well. The only other thing I can
think of that would motivate the community would have to be something that has that kind of emotional
impact. I don't think that fear and things like that are actually very good motivators. I think
it's much more important to have a community going. I think that's the big thing that helped the
Catholic Church, right? For the vast majority of people, it's just the lady, it's people working
their nine to five jobs or in the pre-modern era, their sunrise to sunset farms and for the most part
living life, finding a place to slot into in society and being more or less content and putting
just a little bit of their effort towards the church and they managed to give people enough
meaning in life and fulfill enough of an niche socially that they could aggregate some of that
extra effort until eventually they became what they are. And so I don't think that, you know,
