Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Steven Zuber, and I'm excited to welcome back our guest, David Youssef.
Howdy, howdy, everyone.
Hello, David.
I think our listeners may remember you from the episode where it was just you and Steven,
and I finally have the pleasure of getting to talk to you, too.
I'm excited to speak with you as well.
Huzzah.
We have you on here because you want to talk to us about being intentionally crazy.
Yes.
In a safe way.
Yes, that's the important part.
So my thesis goes along the lines of this.
The universe is always going to be stranger than we imagine.
And making new discoveries and updating our maps in really significant ways often is a
combination of a lot of really wrong incorrect ideas and one very correct one and a moment
of epiphany.
And I think that if you look at history, a lot of the people who've made the biggest
pushes in the way we think forward have had a little bit of a crazy streak in them.
I think a little bit is an understatement based on what I've read about basically everyone.
Well, one of the things I like to bring up is Sir Isaac Newton was really into magic.
And that was actually instrumental in him coming up with the theory of gravity because
in magic you have ideas like voodoo dolls.
You can affect something at a distance, right?
Until then, as far as physics was concerned, there was no such thing as a force that acted
without direct contact.
It was by using the idea of acting at a distance and then combining that with the hard math
that he knew that he was able to come up with theories like gravity.
Can I get a couple of quick questions?
Absolutely.
So on one, was Newton interested in magic in the sense that he was interested in...
So there's a few senses of magic, right?
There's stage magic like pen and teller.
There's stuff we don't understand, the unknown.
And then there's legit magic.
If I wave my wand and say abracadabra, you get shot by green light and die.
Which kind of magic was Newton interested in?
So the first type, the stage magic or trickery, that's closer to barting historically.
It was an entertainer thing and everyone has always known that.
The idea of abracadabra wand-waving magic is less than 100 years old.
It is extremely modern.
If you want to go into a little bit of esoteric stuff, he was really big into alchemy.
Do you ever wonder why the rainbow has seven colors indigo and violet when really it kind
of looks like there's six?
Oh, yes, I just learned this a few weeks ago.
This is amazing.
Yeah, so it's because there were seven planets at the time and he thought every color corresponded
to a planet like magically horoscope kind of alignment.
Seven was a popular number back in the day.
Yeah, it had a lot of significance.
Well, so I guess that puts up the other kind of magic, I mean, so like there's also the
kind of magic that the Salem witches were accused of conducting, right?
Or you're doing seances or casting spells that didn't involve wand-waving and light,
but were involved like you said, boo-doo dolls or that sort of thing.
So I guess what I'm asking was he into like the bullshit hocus-pocus magic of how we wanted
to find it or was he into like, I don't think alchemy falls under that category.
Alchemy is like the worship of the unknown or maybe just bad science.
I guess I'm curious, was he a full-on occultist or was he a confused scientist?
He was a legit occultist by every measure that I'm aware of.
Oh, that's awesome.
Galileo, one of the main reasons that they, you know, that the church would crack down
on Galileo as much as they did wasn't just because of his heliocentrism, although I mean,
that had something to do with it too, but because he was a heretic.
He would, you know, believed in these sort of occult things as well.
And if we want to use a more recent example, Jack Parsons anniversary of his death day
just passed and Jack Parsons was one of the first rocket scientists to help start NASA
and a huge researcher into like chemical rocket fuels.
And that dude hung out with Alistair Crowley and a pre-scientology Elron Hubbard, which
is about as crazy into the esoterica as a person can go, in my opinion.
Yeah.
And there was a lot of, God, now that I think about it, the old hermetic traditions had
a lot of geometry and chemistry and a bunch of other things mixed in with them as well.
You know, they weren't just like trying to summon up the spirits of your ancestors.
They were like trying to do it with these weird kind of pre-scientific wrappings around everything.
They were trying to approach a lot of different problems.
Okay.
So I'm going to give you guys first a disclaimer.
So in preparing for this, I've been rereading a lot of my old grimoires, including one of
the most powerful grimoires I have, rationality from AI to zombies.
I consider it a grimoire.
Yes.
And there's a part at the end where Yudkowsky is talking about levels and strength as a
rationalist.
If I'm a white belt rationalist, I'm below white belt magician.
So please, anything I say, people in the actual occult community.
Though I can't imagine there's a large listener base for them here, but they're probably going
to be very upset because I'm going to butcher a lot of this.
So when you say magician here, you mean, did you listen to the episode where Vivian and
Cannonball Jenkins and Ynash and I talked about ritual and stuff?
Yes.
And in fact, I do have an answer for you guys, a good definition of ritual.
Okay, I can't wait.
That didn't change it from habit.
But just really quick.
So that's, you're talking magicianry in the same sense that Vivian's talking witchcraft, right?
Yes.
In the sense that it's not what really anybody means by witchcraft.
Except people who use that term.
Well, I'm going to give you the exact four things that magic historically and the kind
of magic I think about says it can do.
And then I'm going to give you the rationalist explanation where it's all in my head.
And then I'll give you the completely insane theoretical explanation.
I'm stoked.
Sorry to keep interrupting.
So I study and have been pulled into chaos magic, which has an illustrious tradition going back
to the 1970s when two mathematicians and some artists like started looking at all of the
ancient occult traditions and realized there were only a few things that all of them said.
All magic systems say they can, one, summoning and communing with the others, question mark.
Two is they all say they have a way of predicting the future.
Third, they say that there's a way of getting information that you shouldn't be able to get,
like astral projecting, right?
And the fourth would be probability manipulation.
Wait, what is probability manipulation?
Is that funneling the future like a more desirable outcome?
Essentially, yeah.
The way I think about these is I think that 95% of this stuff is probably in my head or 99%.
Can I jump in there really quick?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
No, no, I don't want to drop.
It sounds like you're on a flow.
Well, I still don't know.
Wait, I'm still not sure what probability manipulation means.
That is practical enchantment.
The way a wizard thinks about doing a spell is we don't know what causes it,
but for some reason, when you concentrate real hard and then you allow your focus to
dissipate into your subconscious, that's what casting a spell is.
It's building up a lot of energy, mental or emotional or physical,
and then releasing it with an idea attached to it into the void, essentially,
and the goal is to manipulate the odds in your favor.
You can't make impossible things happen with magic,
but the closest thing I could have is, did you read Unsong?
Yeah.
Placebo Mansi.
Oh, okay, nice.
Placebo Mansi is actually the best description I've ever read of what
people in the Chaos Magic community actually are trying to do with sigils.
I've never heard of any magical tradition that actually says you can turn into a wolf or a cat.
There's a few that say you can project into them,
but most of them say that they can give you a little bit of extra luck in battle
or maybe push it so that rain cloud that might have avoided your village goes over it instead.
Right, things that are completely not provable.
That is one of the big issues with it,
but I do think that one of the values of practical enchantment,
especially if you want to be an effective wizard,
is you have to be really good at project management,
because one of the things that I was introduced to as an idea is,
if I do a spell to try to win the lottery, right,
maybe I've changed the odds from 1 in 300 million to 1 in 11 million,
and I'm a great wizard if I somehow managed to do that,
but you know what, I'm still probably going to lose.
And how could you possibly know if you succeeded?
Yeah.
No, I'm serious.
So how could you know if your spell has succeeded?
Well, if it went from 1 in 300 million to 1 in 11 million,
you would have no way of knowing.
You still lose a losing ticket.
Like any losing ticket isn't any closer to winning than another losing ticket.
I agree.
Here's an example of one I did recently.
I told you this like a week ago, which is kind of why I'm here.
About a week ago, I did a bunch of sigils,
which is a way of essentially turning a spell or a wish into an image.
And then I draw it out.
I do a little bit of concentration and a little ritual at my altar.
I put it in my little place.
And one of them was financial opportunities will fall towards me,
and like luck will help me even when I don't deserve it.
I think I put that in specifically.
Less than 12 hours later, I got a phone call from a phone number in Maryland,
and I answered and it was a person going,
hey, I saw you a year and a half ago in an open house,
and I found your card today, and me and my husband are looking to buy a house,
and I'm a realtor.
So I was like, I'd be happy to help you.
And it turns out they might end up being like legitimately more than half the money I make this year.
But wouldn't that require your magic to literally travel back in time
to affect them having picked up your card a year and a half ago?
Yes.
Retro causality.
Time is very weird.
I had a lot of really great experiences that have, I mean, in large part,
their luck, like the way I got burning my tickets,
I don't remember if I said this before or not,
was just someone who listened to the methods of rationality podcast
was coming through town, said, you want to meet?
I said, sure.
And you know, there's a whole confluence of coincidence
and things just happening to work out.
But if as long as you keep doing things and putting yourself out there every now
and then you'll get hits.
And like I was extremely lucky and I cast no sigils at all.
So like I said, that last one is both the hardest to believe
and in one way the easiest to test.
And this is something I sincerely believe,
whether it's working by tricking my perception or changing something in the universe.
There's never been a time I've done sigils and they haven't worked,
which is weird to say because like each time I've done it,
