it's been in a semi tongue-in-cheek manner.
But like you don't actually have to believe it at all.
No, I mean, I think it's great if people do things that make them feel better
about their lives and more in control or whatever.
But I think there's a definite danger of wasting time and effort on things
that literally don't do anything when one could be doing things that actually help.
It's the whole thoughts and prayers thing.
You know, please stop sending us thoughts and prayers and send us some actual aid.
That is absolutely fair.
And that's one of the, when we were starting this conversation
about like safe forms of crazy, right?
Like for me, the expenditure of energy and time in this is about a total of one hour per week.
Okay. And yeah, I waste more than an hour a week just trying to get motivated
and do good things too.
So if that helps you get motivated, that is probably a definite time savings overall.
Yeah. And so part of the reason I have started doing magic, as I said,
I think 95% of it is in my head.
But there's 5% just weirdness that I really do think pushes the edges of credibility.
Like here's my question, Enias.
Let's say on a lark, I convinced you to make one sigil a week for six months.
And let's say three out of four weeks, something like it happened.
And it happened in a way that was not just kind of what you envisioned, but above and beyond.
That isn't enough evidence to prove it scientifically,
but it would definitely make you feel weird, wouldn't it?
No, because I know the psychology behind it.
It's the same reason I don't do these sorts of things and I feel silly doing them
because I realize that if I am making things that are wishes that are plausible,
and I'm working towards them, and the world, now that I have these sigils drawn,
I am primed to look for hits, I would expect most of them for me to count it as a hit.
And be like, oh, okay, so I didn't get that date with the hot chick that I saw the other night,
but I met this other person and got their number, and oh my god, that totally counts,
even though, you know, like, I'm out there putting myself out trying to get people's numbers.
What if, okay, so an example similar to that is I did, I had a crush.
One of my first, like, I think intentional magic things was I had a crush in high school
on a girl named Lauren, and I tried for weeks and failed utterly.
And then a week later, I was asked out by a girl at another school
who I randomly saw named Lauren. I got the Lauren, just not the one I was hoping for.
And to be fair, I literally could not have met her or predicted it at all.
Like, I was a very introverted person, or I was never introverted,
but I was not very emotionally communicative in high school.
I guess I want to take this a step back. So the four principles of magic that
you talked about, what were they again? Summoning slash communicating with the others.
Future prediction, and then astral projection.
There were four, weren't there? There was something about it.
The fourth one is probability manipulation. Okay, so talking with others.
Actually, can I interrupt you for just a second, Steven?
Yeah, go nuts.
Okay. Well, I was just going to say that I don't think it would be a productive use of
our or our audience's time to actually go into the magic stuff, because those of us who are...
If they're interested, we can put some links at the bottom, but I agree.
It's not like, I don't think I'm going to convince or no one wants a lesson in it.
Right, exactly. There's plenty of skeptics podcasts out there that have covered this for
hundreds of hours. There's plenty of believers' podcasts out there that people can go into.
So I'm more interested in would be like, how is incorporating this controlled craziness into
one's life beneficial, even if one doesn't actually believe in supernatural stuff?
That's fair. I was just going to say that I think I could do all of those four things
without leaving my bedroom if I had my phone with me.
Yes, that's nice.
I think that means you're a very good wizard.
It means that my cell phone is very magical, right?
So I think things that are that loosely described, it sounds almost, dare I say,
Jordan Peterson-ish to disingenuously be like, oh yeah, no, that's what I mean by magic.
Not what everybody else means. Not what you think I mean.
Not what the popular use is. But yeah, your cell phone is literally magic,
just like religions are literally true.
So is that the sense? I'm feeling the same sort of-
No, when I said the others, that was my generic term because I didn't want to say things like
fairies or angels or demons or spirits or ghosts.
Okay, so it's something I could do without leaving my room if I had my cell phone and some DMT.
Yeah, actually, probably.
I mean, I think that there's a lot to be said about taking your time and not going far,
but that's something else.
I want to bring up the little passage that I sent to Steven that made him interested enough to at
least consider this.
Excellent.
I might have forgotten to share that, so please go over in detail.
So the person who got me started in this was a writer named Gordon White.
He has a blog called Roon Soup, which I highly recommend.
Even if you ignore all the magic stuff, he worked in international finance and branding for many
years and his takes on geopolitics are surprisingly good.
Fairly enough, but he has a series on magic and here's what he wrote.
Debt is magic.
It is a literal pact with the future.
Little wonder that emerges from the gloom of prehistory into the minuscule light of recorded
history more or less fully formed.
We got it from something sitting at the campfire's edge.
When a Babylonian farmer summoned debt, he would bring forward from the future his own wheat
harvest to pay for the equipment or land he actually needed to materialize said wheat harvest
in the first place.
This feat of imaginal time travel and when it works, it is once again literally a successful
act of actual magic.
It is a manifestation of something from nothing.
The time travel always has a cost and of course on the other side of the trade are the gods,
represented by the intervening years that could bring drought or locus or war or the death of
your sons.
So the farmer pays for his equipment with money from another dimension, unbound by time,
but then binds both himself and that money two time.
Debt is hugely powerful, albeit dangerous system of actual magic, freed of any morality about
its use.
It is the devil's money.
Okay.
For the most part, I really like that because it is a wonderful new way to think about a
financial instrument, which really puts into, like gives you emotional feel for what it is
and the powerful things you can do with it.
So yeah, that was awesome.
Yeah, I love that.
I remember it now.
It was fantastic.
That is why I explore esoterica because some of the most beautiful and important ideas and
new ways of framing it are out in the chaos and the mess that stands at the edges of the crazy.
And I think it's good for humans to do that too because I personally think that everyone has
a certain amount of like irrationality as a pressure inside of them.
And if you don't let it out in controlled bursts, either by going to parties and getting drunk
and letting it out there or in play in some form, it will bubble up in the rest of your life.
So instead of maybe being crazy for some other reason, I get to be crazy at my little altar
at home in a very controlled setting.
And I get to read awesome things like this and think about problems in new ways.
Another benefit is in one of the magic podcasts I was listening to,
I was introduced to a word in the language from New Zealand.
I can't remember it now.
But in the native Kiwi, there is a word that means all of the things as your forebearers
that end up making you who you are.
And that word can obviously mean your parents.
But if your family has been drinking from the same river for 30 years and all your atoms change
every seven years, then legally that river is a forebearer to you.
And in their law, it specifically says that the natives there can treat landmarks as like
literally like family members.
And when you view it in that light, you're like, I am much more closely related
to the farms I get my food from than my great aunt.
I'm processing that.
I'm not sure how to...
I don't know if that's actually the case because unless there's something really
unusual in a particular farm and you get all your food from it, you'd still...
I guess the concept of genetically related, does it matter?
Yeah, I'm not saying this as like an objective truth, but it's a really weird
recontextualization of place versus person.
And this is one of those things that...
It honestly was one of the ideas that has led me to focus a lot of my time into like
ecological real estate and like how you can make land healthy because if you grow your food in
your backyard and you eat it and you live at a place for seven years, then in a very real way,
you and your house are like family.
And like it's a silly idea, but I think people feel those kind of things more deeply,
even if they are not necessarily rational.
And hey, if I can get more people planting trees and eating healthy in the process,
that seems pretty good.
Yeah, so how would you incorporate these sort of things into your, I don't know,
thinking into your life to be more, I don't know, creative or scientific or whatever?
How does this help us discover the next gravity?
I think of it like exercise.
It's mental, we literally say about people who hold these beliefs in seriousness
as doing mental gymnastics, right?
I think that's a very accurate term and that's what it is.
It's keeping your mind limber and willing to entertain ridiculous ideas and really think
them through and then dismiss them.
Like if they're really not worth it, it's fine.
But take them at their ridiculous assumptions and play them out in your head first.
And then when you do have the opportunity to hit an idea like gravity,
you won't just dismiss it because how can forces act on each other at a distance?
You'll really think it through.
You know, I've recently read a, I think it was a really brief post on Less Wrong
about a very similar concept, fake frameworks, where the author mentioned that basically all
of our models are imperfect and there is a danger in thinking that our models are too perfect.
And if we can every now and then entertain an idea and say to ourselves,
I know this is not really how the world works.
But for the purposes of argument or whatever, I'm going to assume that, you know,
there's only two types of people in the world, X and Y.
And you can make some useful predictions with that while at the same time realizing
that it is a fake framework and it should not bind your thinking very strongly.
And so this seems almost similar like that being having the mental agility to
consider things without taking them completely seriously and binding yourself to them.
Yeah. And I think it would be very easy to become lazy about a habit of doing this.
So adding the magical like ritualistic component is a way of forcing me to do it on a regular
basis so I don't let it slide like a workout routine. Plus, it's a really useful psychological tool.
Like a lot of the best interpretation of demons, somebody I've ever heard is,
there's a great quote from Frank Herbert.
The psychologist, the priest and the shaman all have the same job, which is to heal people's
souls. And I think that's kind of correct in the sense that if you had bipolar disorder or
schizophrenia in an ancient village, right, that's a real liability. That's a real risk.
But you also might be really nice the rest of the time or a female in a tribe where there's not a
lot of females or maybe you're really big and strong and you only go crazy in your bloodlust.
Like there's a whole bunch of scenarios where giving up on you as a person is not the best thing
for the tribe, but they need to deal with this issue. And so since manpower was so limited back
then, you needed everyone if you could. So you go to the shaman and he's like, huh, let me think.
And he gives you some mushrooms and he tells you like your anger is a demon.
And it's not a bad one, but we've got to bind it.
So you're like losing it and you see the demon that is your anger, maybe you get a tattoo and
you bind it, you now control it. And next time you start to get angry, the shaman just has to say,
hey, your demon is getting like, your demon is rising and then you're not the one socially
responsible. But you also have a trigger that allows you to notice it as well. So in a way,
like humans are way better at dealing with other humans than we are with dealing with
the abstractions about ourselves by turning your mental processes into an other and then
making a deal with it or or dealing with it in some way. I think that's how a lot of psychotherapy
was done for most of human history. I remember hearing about when people used to come back
from war, they and obviously not in all Christian societies, but in some, they had a tradition of
the people who came back, even if they were, you know, fighting in a holy war that that was bitten
to them by God and you know, the king ordered it and they acted honorably, they still had a period
of penance to do because they were just involved in a large scale violent affair. And it was during
this time period that they slowly reintegrated into normal daily life and society again. And I
almost think that it would be good for us to have some sort of similar ritual nowadays because
now people just like come home from war and like, hey, you're back, start being you again.
