And if you play the Last of Us.
So this is takes place during the first one. Yeah. OK.
So Ellie looks exactly like Ellen Page as a younger person.
Who's Ellen Page?
Elliot Page now.
Ellie. So that's right from Juno.
Right. Yeah. OK, OK.
And so I was this is my my serious question is if I'm talking about
Elliot Page sub 10 years ago, do I say
Elliot Page, formerly known as Ellen Page, because I'm talking about
the little girl that they used basically to model Ellie from The Last of Us On.
Yeah. And that that person was known as Ellen Page.
I think most trans people prefer that you use their current name and pronouns.
But like, but yeah, then you can specify that if you're talking about them in the past.
OK. I don't know. It's.
Well, I mean, it's particularly hard in Elliot's case because
he played a pregnant girl.
Like the whole point of the movie was that she was pregnant.
And that was a big issue for them.
I mean, I could get pregnant.
You know, yeah. Yeah.
I'm just I'm sure I've seen it.
But I'm thinking I think I've seen it.
I'm just thinking of Last of Us.
Oh, yeah, I know. Yeah.
And you know, that was like the plot thrust of the movie.
See, this came up because I was thinking of because I just when I was skimming
is there going to be more Mandalorian?
I'm like, oh, wait, Pedro Pascal. Last of us. What?
And then there's only two credited actors so far is Pedro Pascal
and that person who's playing Ellie. Cool.
The other just, of course, wrinkle from our brain is Ellie sounds so close
to Ellen. Yeah. And say that.
And because Ellie had been on purpose, probably since it was based on Ellen.
Yeah. I mean, I don't know if it was it must have been.
There's the likeness was too similar for it to be an accident, I'm guessing.
But I was telling I was telling my wife about it.
And I'm like, wait, do I say Elliot Page 10, 12 years ago?
I don't think anyone's going to cancel you for saying Ellen Page
when referring to the Last of Us character.
Oh, well, and the female actress back before transition.
Someone might.
But I was just curious what the what the appropriate way to actually do it was
when I'm actually talking about the preference would be to use their
current name and pronouns.
That's good to know. Yeah.
Some people have such bad dysphoria that they do actually find it upsetting
to be dead named or mis misgendered, mispronounced.
Yeah. No, I mean, that's totally reasonable.
But also, like for public figures, I think that is less reasonable.
Like, do you say that Caitlyn Jenner won the men's Olympics medals?
I think this is one of those things that, like, you know, because I know Caitlyn
Jenner is the other obvious example, and yet I don't I never knew who Bruce Jenner was.
And so, like, I mean, as a public figure or whatever, right?
I'm just I'm just grounding because it's like that's because Caitlyn Jenner sucks as a person.
Oh, didn't she kill somebody with a car?
What? Yeah. When did this happen?
Now, don't quote me on this. I'm pretty sure this happened.
OK. She, like, has conservative opinions, except managed to, like, hammer her brain
into this weird configurate, you know, like, when you have, like, gay people who are
Christian and they like, or whatever, where it's just sort of, yeah.
You can you can have.
I mean, that's the thing is I don't know a lot of Christian sex out there.
Right. But yeah, I was just thinking, because this is like the first time
like, OK, hold on, it's like me, sector, realize you meant S E C T.
I mean, there's a lot of Christian sex, too.
I was like, wait, what?
Yeah, I thought you said sex Christianity.
Yeah, yeah, I'd accept a lot of different things.
Sex. I think, yeah, you have to pronounce it awkwardly.
Another difference. I come from Colorado.
We don't pronounce our T's here.
Not in certain cases anyway.
Pictures into the pictures.
Oh, man, there was.
Oh, no, I'm going to start noticing that now.
Uh-huh. We did it.
So, yeah, no, you did you have any
another thing on this topic or do you want to just pass slide past that?
Well, that's kind of curious, because so we were just because the timing
lined up so well, because we were talking about
what's her actual name, the actress from Mandalorian.
Gina Carano. Gina Carano.
And I'm not sure I'm pronouncing that last name correctly, but I think it's.
I think you are.
She was also played by Cecily Strong
in the opening segment of Last Night's SNL.
OK. So they introduced her as Gina Carano.
Now I remember. Yeah.
So I think you said it right.
So I was thinking like, oh, yeah, great, because, you know, she had this
like a moment like I talked about where rather than Pedro Pascal
hitting her with the butt of his pistol from the Mandalorian,
he talked with her and apparently brought her around to being less of a jerk
about I think it was pronoun usage.
What I discovered what that was about, I was like, how was that even an issue?
Like she wasn't so I don't know what things were on set.
And maybe there was a much bigger thing on set.
But the thing that she got originally almost canceled
for that he had to quote, talk to her about was the fact that people
were harassing her so much to put pronouns in her bio that like she was
getting death threats and rape threats and all that other stuff.
And she eventually like put beep, bop, boop in her profile as her pronoun.
I'm kind of confused.
I'm not following any of this.
OK, so on her Twitter profile, OK, who?
Wait, Gina Carano. OK, so this is an actress.
She's an actress.
Do you see Deadpool? I've seen Deadpool.
Remember the woman who fought Colossus in the last fight?
Angel dust. That's Gina Carano. OK.
The hot chick from Deadpool. OK.
So she has a Twitter profile like a lot of other people do.
For some reason. Yeah, for some fucking stupid reason.
And a lot of like her co-hosts, I guess, or other people that she was around.
Maybe it was just like a movement on Twitter at the time that she started
being active on Twitter was that everyone puts their pronouns in their bio.
And she didn't. She was just like, I'm Gina Carano.
Here's a picture of me.
And I mean, she didn't even say that.
She said nothing.
She just like didn't put her pronouns in her profile.
And people started harassing her because it's the fucking Internet
and people are the worst on the Internet.
And I mean, that's that's just to be expected, I guess, right?
Compelling speech out of people almost seems like of a variant of, you know,
you know, making people feel bad for not wanting to sleep with you. Right.
And it's like, no, no, you'd really need to put your religion in your Twitter handle.
Yeah. Yeah, that's weird.
Put your race in your Twitter bio, man.
Yeah, jeez.
That I could I could actually see that happening before the religion thing, right?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's that's unsettling.
But anyways, she just refused to do that.
And some people started harassing her as they do.
And eventually as a I don't even want to call it a backlash because to me,
this is like a really classy and good-natured way to be like,
kind of slap back a little bit at people who are threatening to kill you.
She put beep, bop, boop in her profile as her pronouns as like, you know,
like fuck off haters kind of thing.
And that got her almost canceled.
Yeah, people are very interpretive about us.
You're making fun of pronouns.
Yeah. And I, I don't know.
Am I completely out of whack here?
Or is that a rather classy humorous reply as opposed to being raging transphobia?
I don't know if it's any classier than like, you know,
the quote, identify as an attack helicopter.
Like, I wouldn't call that classy.
That's, I would consider that more trashy.
And I feel like this is just of that brand, but less funny because
attack helicopters are hilarious.
I tend to find as an attack helicopter, that's just kind of being a jerk.
Whereas if you do that in response to people threatening to kill and rape you,
that's your, that is a de-escalation in my opinion.
Yeah, I mean, you're trying to joke and laugh off threats to your physical safety.
It's like when you apply for a job and they ask you for your race on the job
application, if you click other and type in human, that's like, I think that's
kind of a classy response to like not wanting to surrender, you know, race
information about yourself, right?
Oh, OK.
But if you put a beep, bop, boop, I don't know if that's, I don't know if that's,
I guess I don't want to get into a debate about what classy means.
But I guess in general, I like trying to de-escalate violent
situations by resorting to humor.
Yeah.
Although any sort of de-escalation to me is a move that I am happy with.
That, yeah, I can, I can agree that general sentiment.
So maybe it's not classy, but it's just something that I thought was cool.
I think it is hard to interpret humor kind of, I think last time the three of us
were hanging out or talking about how like with the right audience, like if
you're hanging out with some friends, I don't know, if it's like me and my other
trans friends, we could make like a transphobic joke, but we're laughing at
like the people who would say that kind of thing.
But if it was me and a bunch of strangers, I'd never say that because
the context isn't clear.
Yeah.
Like I'm very bad wizards.
One of them is Jewish and the other one, he's always pretending to be the other
one's anti-Semitic and the other one's always playing into the joke.
They do that unblocked and reported to where she's anti-Semitic and he's anti-lesbian.
So like among friends, you know, it's anti, it's counter signaling, right?
And it's fun.
But if I were to go up to, let's see, Tamler, wait, David Pizarro and Tamler,
whichever one is Jewish, if I were to go up to the Jewish one and make an
anti-Semitic joke, that'd be, you know, fucked up.
Right?
Yeah.
But we were all chums.
I don't think Beep-Bop Boop is transphobic though.
So that's dumb.
Like if you said attack helicopter, that's like, it's got a context of people
that are making fun of transgender identities.
Saying Beep-Bop Boop to me just sounds like I don't want to answer this.
Why are you bothering me?
So it doesn't bother me.
I guess my thing with Gina Carano was I, and I wasn't, I didn't know the
full details of that.
I know that Peter Pascal's sibling is either trans or non-binary or something.
And so, you know, he reached out and like, you know, I think, I don't know
