Oh wait for the quantum.
Yeah, there's definitely sequences that I mean, uh, Eleazar is an AI researcher,
but he was a mathematician, right?
Yeah.
So like, it makes sense that that was the language he would communicate in.
But I also, um, I remember finding Scott Alexander's posts to be more, I don't
know, like Scott would explain the same concepts sometimes in ways that like
made more sense to me because he was coming at things, like general, fun,
like a psychology or, uh, pharmacology perspective, which is just like more,
you know, my, my, my interests and my strengths.
And he has said specifically that he was bad at math.
So yeah.
Okay.
So he says that's because he's friends with Eleazar Kowsky, who's a math
savant, right?
It's like, yeah, you know, I'm friends with Usain Bolt and I'm really slow,
right?
But yeah, I mean, I think that that's, that's a valuable to have it, have
different, have some of the same techniques taught in different ways.
That's just good, good way to learn.
And it's also indicative of the fact that you don't have to excel in exactly
the same domains to have the same skills, right?
So yeah, it's awesome.
Thank you for helping us be better people.
Yeah, thanks for bringing up a good topic too.
I do think that, well, I don't know, maybe we should get back to feedback,
but like another time it might be interesting to talk about how ration,
like whether, I guess we think rationality has a branding problem.
I can add that to our topics list.
Yeah, we've had on the backlog for a long time, like a craft and community
episode and still looking to find the best way to put that together.
So, yeah, I also appreciate you guys indulging me for way longer than I
meant to talk about.
I felt like the digressions were valuable and interesting, but.
Well, that was a good topic too.
I mean, because it was the kind of the subject of the ethics of businesses.
More feedback?
Sure.
Do we want to touch briefly on how to eat nature balls?
Sure.
Okay.
So this goes back to an episode where I mentioned that sometimes when I'm
out hiking or whatever, see little berries, put them in my mouth, taste them
and try them out, see how it is.
Call those berries nature balls because they're usually small little
spherical things and they're found in nature.
Anyways, there is a, oh man, I didn't write down the user that suggested
this again because I'm a jerk and I don't know how to copy and paste.
But one of our listeners gave to us the universal, the universal
edibility test, which is a thing that actually exists.
It's considered a basic survival skill by the various societies that do
survival things, I don't know.
But yeah, there's a whole list of ways to find just about anything and
slowly find out if it's edible without killing yourself.
And it actually takes several weeks because like the first step is to just
rub it, some of it on your skin and then wait for a number of hours, eight
hours to see if there's a reaction.
Then after that, you rub it on your lip because that's a more
sensitive part of skin.
And again, wait several hours.
Then you just taste a little bit and spit it out and wait a while and then
you chew and then spit it out and rinse with water and wait a while.
Only after that do you swallow just a tiny little bit and then see if you
get sick and eventually you can get to the point of, oh, okay.
I guess this one poisoned me, but it takes days at least.
I like it.
The last time I was cooking.
Yeah.
Cause some things, yeah, safe until you cook them.
Yeah.
Or vice versa.
Uh, there, yeah, I'm glad that I like somebody posted a series.
I'm always glad when people post serious answers to like, are goofy
jokes because I'm always interested in just learning new things, but like, in
particular, something that I had always wondered about.
So like with some of the weird shit that we eat as humans, I'm just like, or even,
you know, like, uh, actually this is just maybe a Scout, Alexandria post, but what
drug is it?
Um, ayahuasca.
Yeah.
Where you have to, like in a rainforest, I guess, with like God knows how many
different species of plants, somebody figured out that it's like, you need this
part of this plant and then like this completely other plant.
And there's a really complicated chemical reason why.
And it's like, I was just wondering, like, how do we figure out what's
how to pull this is not like, we're ancient people just walking around
tasting everything and like falling over dead all the time filming at the mouth.
Like, we had a lot of free time.
Yeah.
Well, there's an actual algorithm that makes it pretty safe.
Apparently.
Oh, well, yeah.
I guess I, you know, the more things you add to this step, those eight steps that
like the, the, the time involvement grows exponentially, right?
So I mean, maybe eating this redberry passes all the tests, but you mix it with
this blueberry and on step eight, when you cook them together, you make the
perfect cocktail of murder, right?
Yeah.
Um, I also just like, you look at like a sea urchin or a crab and like the first
person to eat one of those must have been really hungry or maybe they watch
something else.
It looks so unadvertising.
Yeah.
I don't think crabs look bad.
Maybe it's just because I've eaten so many crabs.
No, crab is my, is my favorite food.
Yeah.
They look like a giant bug though.
They look like a giant horrible spider bug.
I don't think they look like a bug because they have the, well, okay.
I guess bugs do have an exoskeleton.
To me, they just look different than a bug.
They're basically a big aquatic bug.
They, well, I know they are, but they look like a weird sea creature and not a
bug.
Bugs are valid.
Bugs are grimy and disgusting and spread disease.
And I don't get the same feeling about crabs.
That's, that's the main thing I hate about bugs.
Bugs are a great source of nutrition.
And honestly, if we, as a species, could be more on board with it, we could solve
so many of our problems with agriculture and farming and feeding the world.
Speaking of, of eating ethical milk, does crabs feel pain?
I'm asking for a friend.
I mean, I'm sure they have to, yeah, sure they have pain receptors.
Otherwise they wouldn't survive.
Well, I mean, like a lot of things, I think might not, they just, they just, you
know, they lose a limb and they don't care, right?
I guess the question is, like, do they have a enough of a consciousness, a
brain to, to make that matter?
Like, obviously they're going to be able to feel that a limb is missing and that
neural feedback can't be pleasant.
I desperately want to justify my belief that eating crabs is okay.
Oh, I think it's okay.
Oh, good.
Then I'm done.
I think there's definitely a spectrum of okayness where they're like pretty, I'm
in, like, uh, what's the thing?
Some vegans eat oysters, I think, or, or mussels.
They don't even have a neural network though, right?
Uh, yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
They're like, it's sort of five valves.
Yeah.
Basically a plant.
Yeah.
And in the ethical ways that matter, not that biology, but yeah, yeah.
Right on.
But are we, we're privileging intelligence though.
I mean, yes, we are.
Like we just had Scott Alexander post about privileging intelligence.
Didn't we?
There's another great piece of feedback here from Zilla.
Hearing Inyosh say that Kellogg mutilated his dick made me very confused until
I realized he's talking about circumcision.
I was like, do their products have dick mutilator slots?
Did you try to fuck cereal?
And then correction, that was Steven that said that, not Inyosh.
Oh, good.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
It's gonna say that sounds like a funny joke.
I wish I had made it.
All right.
Um, so yeah.
That was literally you that said Kellogg's mutilated my dick.
Well, good, because they, whoever said that is a great sense of humor.
Um, yeah, go to, go to Kellogg's Wikipedia page.
There's a whole section on how he championed circumcision, like it was, you
know, the most important thing you could do with his life.
And it's kind of weird.
It's very weird.
I think I probably made the session some people have.
Yeah.
I probably remarked on the same episode that just carrying that much about other
people's dicks seems like you've got some strange priorities.
That's like the weird thing.
I don't know when we were talking about transphobia too, where, and, uh,
people who are like other kin or like, I'm like, why, why, why is this the hill
that you're going to die on?
Right.
Yeah.
I was really baffled by that.
But like, actually, you know, going back to J.K.
Rowling again, but I was reading some of the dumb shit that she actually said
and wrote and like, I was just like, why do you care?
But yeah, and that, that's my main thing with Rowling is, you know, if she's
some random, random internet or like, you know, fine, go nuts, say all the stuff
you want, and maybe, you know, maybe you're trying to get clarification.
Great.
In the, in ideal world, that's why someone goes to the internet and try and learn.
Right.
That's not why anyone goes to Twitter, but sure.
Um, she cares because she's scared and she's scared because she's been told
things that aren't true.
And, you know, then again, the, the responses to educator, but it's also one
of those things, uh, scared of what?
Scared of people being different.
No, scared of men.
Yeah.
