List of top 10 harmful promoters or promoters of harmful pseudoscience.
She seems like a nice woman.
I know that she does a lot of, of good work, but she needs to vet her, her,
and I'm not sure where she's at now.
This was 15 years ago that I was aware of Oprah.
Does she even have a show?
I think she still does.
Hopefully.
She definitely still has a magazine.
Alexa, does the Oprah show still exist?
Wow.
According to our robots, it ended in 2011.
Yes.
That was a really good answer.
I was surprised.
Me too.
Yeah.
Um, while you're doing that, I looked up the definition of justify because
I, they're talking about justifying Occam's razor.
And the point, I guess he was making what you're just talking about was, uh,
that these are words like you would use to try to like convince a human person
rather than, you know, the universe or, uh, physics that don't care about your
arguments, but I just, I don't know.
I was like compelled to look up at justify.
And so we've got verb to show or prove to be right or reasonable.
But then apparently the second definition theology declare or make
righteous in the sight of God.
Oh, interesting.
And now I'm wondering which meaning, I think because he was using other words
that have to do with law, he was using the first definition, but it's just, I
don't know.
It's a cool secondary spin on it.
You're really making me want to talk about a show that I just watched that.
You can talk about a show you just watched.
Before you do that, we just finish.
Yeah.
Well, I want to just, you know, jump in and say that, that I was trying to get to
the point earlier.
I'm not sure if I made it that, um, no one is, well, some people are trying
to justify Occam's razor to argue, to the person they're arguing with, but
like that is not really the goal.
We don't care about justifying it to people.
We just observed that Occam's razor works that when you apply it, uh, you get
correct answers and that's the same thing with the laws of thermodynamics.
You're not trying to justify to someone.
Look, if you heat one end, the heat's going to go to the other because of
these and these reasons, you're just like, look, bitch, we heated one end.
And slowly the rest of the thing warms up because it conducts heat.
You don't believe me.
Touch it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, no, that's, that's a good way to bring that point home.
And like, again, in the early days of my arguing with theists, you know, I'd
be like, well, here's the like the laws of logic and this, this sort of thing.
And they're like, well, you know, I just don't care about that.
Like, all right, well, I can't logic you into, into accepting the laws of logic.
Again, with, with the caveat of yes, you do, you just, you carve out this
exception for it.
Um, but yeah, it's like, all right.
Well, clearly then we're just, we're not, I mean, it's like arguing
whether or not you can move a night this way in chess, but you can't.
It's like, yeah, but I think I can.
It's like, well, then we're not playing chess anymore.
Yeah.
You physically can move it wherever you want, but then you're not playing chess.
Right.
Which is, yeah.
There's, um, there was this, uh, Richard Dawkins debate.
I remember it's probably still on YouTube.
If I can find it, I'll put a link if anyone cares.
But it was, um, he was arguing with this like creationist who just kept saying
it, uh, that there's too many gaps in the evolutionary record and like, oh,
we haven't really found enough evidence.
And he was like, well, actually we have, well, you know, in between humans
and apes, no, we have a lot of them.
Uh, and there's like, I don't know, she just kept saying like, well, there's,
you know, there's, there's too many get like, there's not this thing.
And when she would say specific things like, Oh no, we have tons of fossils.
They're, they're in the British museum.
You could go look at them and then she just kept repeating, well, you
know, they don't really, we don't have them.
And he's like, we do.
We have the right, you could go, go look at them.
Go, go.
I remember seeing this.
And it was like, she just broke.
Like she, like she couldn't engage with like, I don't know.
I guess she expected that to be a knockdown argument and had no ability
to actually think and it just kept repeating it.
It really annoyed me that people upon seeing that thought that Richard Dawkins
was an asshole, like that was one of the things they would like to like Richard
Dawkins is an asshole.
I'm like, what the fuck are you talking about?
Well, because he's right.
Well, and I imagine that the person he's arguing with, I only remember
this being vaguely recounted in the God of the gaps chapter from the God
delusion.
And that's what this, this phenomenon is called, you know, if they say, well,
what about the gap between, you know, this area of understanding?
Well, I filled it.
Oh, but now there's a gap.
There's two gaps.
I think what I imagine happened is that, you know, she was raised being
told this her whole life and then it's like, no, actually you're wrong.
We can go look at it together.
I'll buy your ticket to the museum and like.
I think he actually did say that.
Okay.
That's where he was like, I'll take you right now.
We can go look at them.
Be happy to.
And then at that point, you're like offering to pay her ticket, but he's
the asshole, but then I think it's like, from her perspective, it's like, well,
hold on.
Now I'm being, so like when he said, like she just couldn't think, I imagine
it was just like kind of a cognitive car crash.
And it's like, well, hold on.
I was told that that's where this road went.
And now you're telling me that it's not what, you know, just, and I'm making
bamboozled facial expressions as I'm imagining what was going on in their heads.
So I've experienced like a lot of just cognitive shutdown, usually with
like some kind of intense emotional trigger to use a, you know, a word that
we might raise eyebrows at, but, uh, I think it's a perfectly valid word.
Yeah.
That triggers are real and do exist, but like in the context of like PTSD, not
like I'm vegan and I saw a picture of me.
I don't know.
You know, we don't need to talk about that, but we're not going to respect that.
You need to trigger warning that picture of a pomegranate because it looks
like, you know, violent or something.
Anyway, if your fellow philosophers do not demand justification for your
unarguable beliefs, you will not demand justification for theirs.
As the symbol for your treaty, your white flag, you will use the phrase
a priori truth and that's truth before, uh, observation.
Okay.
Yeah.
A priori is prior observation, um, or prior to observation.
Our Latin listeners, uh, our Latin speaking listeners, uh, West will no
doubt build a more, uh, or cleanly articulate that than I just did.
Fucking lawyers and they're Latin.
He says the internet encyclopedia philosophy defines a priori propositions as
those noble independently of experience Wikipedia quotes, Hume, relations of
ideas are discoverable by the mere operation of thought without dependence
on what is anywhere existent in the universe.
This is contrasted with like a posterior, I, uh, beliefs, which is like this,
what I believe after looking at stuff.
And apparently one of the common examples of that is one plus one equals two.
And, uh, and in reply to that, Eliezer links back to his, uh, post on how
to convince me that two plus two equals five.
Because, um, I think he makes a good point.
If all the evidence consistently shows that adding two and two together makes
five, you kind of accept the evidence.
So this whole thinking about things to, to, to without any, any resorts of the
evidence is stupid.
Yeah.
It's like, then I, I mean, this just gets into like those things that are fun
for a couple of years and became less fun for me examples of like, well, I
can think of things like, uh, whatever all chairs by my definition of things
that you can sit on, I can sit on this, therefore it's a chair.
I don't have to, I don't have to know the definition.
Exactly.
Yeah.
But like, you know, if I, if I can say all A are this B as an A, therefore B is,
or therefore B has whatever trade A has, right?
Um, I can know that before observation, but you kind of have, I guess either
just believe what you're told about B.
Or like, go look at yourself, right?
So there's, there's, I, I don't have, uh,
like that, that one, um, God, I forget when the, what this example is from,
but, uh, when a bunch of people were told all elephants are pink, um,
Maurice is an elephant is Maurice pink.
And the answer was like, I don't know, I have to go see Maurice because they
were like, I'm not sure I believe your, your, uh, your sub positions here.
And it was just supposed to be a, you know, a strict test of logic and applying
just logic.
Yeah.
Of course, Maurice is pink, but, uh, they weren't willing to accept the,
the, the question givers word on this thing.
There you go.
They're, they're bad a priori arguing philosophers.
Yes.
Yeah.
But probably less easy to trick.
And they're good rationalists.
Yeah.
I don't believe until I see it.
Yeah.
Don't, sorry, go ahead.
Oh, no, good.
I was just going to read the last one that we have here.
Don't try to tell me that a priori beliefs are arbitrary because they
sure aren't, uh, generated by rent, rolling random numbers.
Brains evolved from non, non-brainy matter by natural selection.
They were not justified into existence by arguing with an ideal philosophy
student of a perfect, a perfect emptiness.
This does not make our judgments meaningless.
A brain engine can work correctly, producing accurate beliefs, even if it
was merely built by human hands or, or culminative, uh, or cumulative stochastic
selection pressures.
