And one of them is like, you know, talking about elections of fraud.
And they're like, wait, she probably knows what she's talking about.
And you're suddenly swayed to the, the stupid position, right?
So like, and I'm not saying, you know, you should, whatever, fire people for
being factually wrong about stuff.
But when you're, when you're stoking, uh, you know, flames about things that
have real consequences when there's, when it's baseless.
So is, is anyone complaining in public about how they feel the last election
was mishandled, stoking?
Like, is the correct answer to say, shut the fuck up, you're stoking
flames whenever anyone complains.
Cause I don't think that's going to make them trust the system again.
I don't think so either.
So that's why I'm, that's what I was wondering what you meant when you'd
said, like, we need to, like, restore their faith in the system and, and get
rid of the people who are causing all this, you know.
Yeah, I don't think canceling people who are complaining and aren't
responsible for it is going to make things better.
And in fact, I think it's going to make things much worse because they will
trust things even less.
And everyone else will say, like, look, someone is complaining about how they
don't feel secure in the electoral system and they're being silenced and shut down.
Right.
And then the men in black came and took them away in a van and like this
keeps happening.
Definitely says this.
There must be something to it.
And now they work on sea lists straight to video movies with Ben Shapiro.
Right.
So I guess like what, what, what had me sort of like in the air about the
Gina Carano thing is like, I, it doesn't seem like she was fired in isolation.
Like this was, this was not like the only inflammatory thing that she had said.
She's been waving the red flag for as long as she's at Twitter.
And not, not merely saying, like, you know, I voted today, you know,
Trump Pence, you know, like it was things more inflammatory than that.
And so like, again, just like the bullshit, you know, people's parents
spread on Facebook or something.
Right.
Like not a very savvy internet, but like, again, JK Rowling, less, less in
cities than JK Rowling because she's writing original thoughts.
Right.
Yeah.
And so for whatever else about, we're just lazy.
Well, I mean, I think she's going to follow the same trajectory as JK Rowling
now where JK Rowling was basically a leftist liberal, liberal in the term
of leftist, I guess she was a strong leftist person and had some reservations
about trans stuff and.
You know, I have to actually like retract my original response to
JK Rowling said some transphobic stuff was who fucking cares.
Yeah.
I still think who fucking cares because like whatever, but she does have a big
platform and I did finally like not even I wasn't attending.
I accidentally like saw some of the stuff that she was saying and tweeting
and writing and was like, oh, no, that's actually kind of fucked up.
She's kind of a dick.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, that's what I was saying.
Like she started out just a general leftist with concerns and she keeps
getting pushed further and further right.
Yeah.
And I think that seems going to happen with Karan, especially now that like
she's been pushed to working with fucking Ben Shapiro.
Yeah, if she's that's just going to keep pushing her further and further
right if that's the people she's hanging out if she's if she's now stuck
hanging out with Lord, you know, with with not Lord Palpatine is too
nice of a moniker for Ben Shapiro.
If she's if she's hanging out with, but like he's not as bad as Palpatine.
I'm trying to think of Dark Side, right?
Yeah, there aren't a lot of like low key dark side figures.
In any case, like, right.
No, it's low deterred nowadays.
So it is some random death eater, right?
But like, yeah, I mean, like rolling stuff aside, I was going to say, at least
rolling has original thoughts, and that makes her more accountable than
just retweeting random shit now more more accountable, depending on how
wrong she is another conversation.
Well, the reason that I sort of am taking back, like, say, like who fucking
cares about JK Rowling is that I didn't realize how bad shit is for transgender
rights in the UK and her as a, you know, not politician, but but popular billionaire.
So yeah, celebrities do have a big platform and like they're heard.
Yeah.
And she's got so much money and so much influence that like you could be doing
anything with your time.
Yeah, instead, you're focusing on this.
Now, you could call people influencers, I guess.
Like, I know that that's a there's like web people that are influencers.
So like, I feel like there's a sphere of people that don't have official
authority, but definitely have cultural authority.
Elon Musk, a good example, right?
You know, like, yeah, I mean, he's not a politician, but he's got tons of authority.
I mean, oh, he has a juicy Game Stomp.
Oh, no, he took a two day hiatus from Twitter and then just did one tweet,
Dogecoin. Oh my God.
Price is like six X, so I mean, you know, when, when, when, just to see if he could.
I wonder what would happen.
I bet he bought $50,000 in Dogecoin and then just sold when he made, you know,
some, some theater to K on it or something.
Right.
But, um, yeah, my, uh, I guess.
So I've made a really, well, I think the tangents have been valuable.
But my, the main thing on, on Gina Carano is like, I don't know if I would
want to work with her if she like, I would be annoyed if my co-worker was,
you know, constantly like doing all, I got to know, I mentioned, I
complained about my manager who was doing the play the middle.
Let's, let's just be sure the vote was legit.
And like, I don't know what his actual position is because I don't think he
actually had one, but like it's, and that's just the one issue.
But if he's doing it on everything or whatever, like I'd find it annoying.
I wouldn't want to work with him.
Um, if like, I don't know.
I mean, if we had somebody, uh, who was still editing our podcasts and I
won't name our awesome guy, he used to do it because I don't want to pretend
like he's going to be the guy in my, my hypothetical here.
But if our editor who had a, who had a page on our website as thank you for
editing our show was constantly out there tweeting this random bullshit, would
we maybe not want him to work for the show anymore?
Depending on the shit he tweeted, like it's his personal life, but if we
linked to his Twitter bio on our webpage and, and you go there and you see
Jewish space lasers and, and, and, uh, evolution is false and all this stuff.
You're like, you know, would we say, Hey man, you're kind of, you work for, when
people come to the page, they see your stuff and that looks bad for us.
We might ask him like, Hey, can you knock that shit out?
And he'd be like, fuck you.
It's my free speech, which is a perfectly fair response.
Yeah.
Would we say, okay, cool.
We're going to find somebody else to edit our podcast then.
I mean, would that be unreasonable?
We'd have to discuss that as a group.
Like for me personally, it just depends on how offensive the thing is.
The thing I keep on, there's a certain level where I'm like, yeah, whatever.
And there's a different level where I'm like, no, no, you just said we should
kill as many people of this ill because we can get the fuck out.
So, sort of the thing that I'm using as an intuition pump is just like Disney is
a brand that I've worked for Disney.
Ah, God, they're, they're protective of their brand.
They have people that brand managers.
They were like, like the brand manager for Peter Pan and like an entire team of
people that are just like, their whole job is to make sure that if anybody
uses an image of Peter Pan, that it's like referencing the, you know, correct.
Yeah.
Like they're not getting his eyes a millimeter too wide or something.
And like, Peter Pan wouldn't have said that, you know, like it's, it's actually
hilarious, but, um, they, it's, it's kind of interesting because they have to have
this family friendly vibe to their brand, uh, since it, you know, is targeted
largely at children, although they're expanding that a lot.
Um, Deadpool and the MCU and lots of things, lots of things.
Uh, but like, they also have, uh, decided that they're liberal, which I guess makes
sense if like your marketing towards kids and younger generations tend to be more
left and your business, you can do whatever you want.
You know, Benjiro decided he's going to be an idiot and I guess he's free to do
that, right?
Like, I think they're just doing it because they think that's where the
majority of the, their audience is like back when their audience would not
accept gay people, they fired the, their actors that came out.
Disney had some super racist, uh, cartoons that they've tried to like,
they've tried to wipe off the internet, but, uh, you know, the internet is an
archive for everything for all time.
You can still find these.
The original song for Aladdin, the opening one was different than the current
one.
I was that you were, I didn't even know they edited that.
Uh, yeah, I was thinking a song in the South, the older stuff, but yeah.
Uh, that's before my time.
But like, I'm just, anyway, I'm just, I imagine if Disney were
conservative as a company, it's interesting.
Yeah, that's a good and this was some like person who was tweeting liberal stuff.
Like, I don't know, like re-tweeting black lives matter or whatever and then
got canceled over that.
Mm-hmm.
That is a really good intuition pump.
And I, that's some food for thought.
I guess, yeah, I, and I, I think that, you know, on the whole
canceling people is the wrong move.
I mean, I, like I said, I guess I spent, I spent some time trying to
steal man in my head and it was like, like, that's kind of where I generated
the smaller example, but we're like, we're a three-person company, right?
And if our, if 25% of our company, if we had one more person was doing a bunch
of stuff that we disagreed with or perfectly within our, you know, I think
it's much, it's a much different conversation.
And we also don't, don't yet have the listenership of Disney.
So, um, you know, we're not quite that big yet.
So, uh, you know, our listeners are in the mere tens of tens of millions, not
hundreds of millions.
So, um, yeah, I, I think that's about it.
I, I, I thought I had something else.
Oh yeah, this is actually the important part.
And this is the thing that like, it's really just the bummer about it.
And like, when you, like, you're not, you're not canceled by the opponent,
the opposing side, right?
You're, you're canceled by your side.
You're kicked out of your circles.
You know, like, I mean, was I, was I kicked out of theist circles when I was in
my, you know, fiest arguing stage in high school?
No, I was never in those circles.
Right.
So like, if they wanted to cancel me, it didn't do anything.
Yeah.
I just had fun arguing with people.
What you get canceled by your friends and the people that you work, you know,
