You know, stitched it together from three other bodies.
Didn't you?
I'm a Frankenstein monster now.
Perfect.
I think I was a much cuter girl than a guy, but it just feels more right.
Cool.
Uh, you made him stop being transphobic.
Well, I think it was mainly like what I, I brought it mainly, mainly in
contrast, just saying, fuck you, you piece of shit.
How dare you say this, this, this heretical thing.
I didn't do that, but I did was, was just engage him on it and gave him
something to think about.
And I, and I think at the end of it, I think we've both been drinking.
I don't remember if he had said, okay, fine, that makes sense.
Or I just felt like he's leaning that way, but whatever I did, it wasn't, you
know, I didn't cancel him from my life and, uh, you know, push him further
into the, the recesses of the dark side.
Right.
So you were saying, uh, man, I had a few thoughts and I kind of jumbled now.
Um, I was going to say that the, the joke that jumped into my head that I was
like, I shouldn't say that, but I was going to was when you asked, Hey,
Steven, what was like the conversation where you made someone stop being
transphobic, I was going to be like punched him in the face.
That's how you stop people from having bad opinions, right?
That's how it's always worked in the past.
Or if you're in certain communities, you know, canceling them out of
existence or out of, out of your lives is, is a solution.
Um, speaking of which, wasn't that one of the topics you wanted to bring up?
Yeah.
I mean, I was hoping we'd do more like lighthearted fun stuff because I
feel like that's going to be a bit of a bummer, but, and I, I was thinking
specifically, I'll never forget the term or hopefully I will, but it's still in
my head of cancel them out of existence because I'd seen somebody use that
before and I'm like, that's, you know what that means, right?
It means kill them.
Right.
Or, or, or cancel them like, you know, there was that porn star a few years
ago who didn't want to do a scene with a gay guy and she was harassed online
and she committed suicide.
Oh my God.
Like, and what, what is weird about that is like, no doubt it was, you know, it
was not the religious conservatives arguing her that she should do it.
It was the, the correct woke left folks.
Yeah.
And saying you have to have sex with someone you don't want to have sex with.
Isn't that weird?
That is so fucked up.
Yeah.
And I don't know what her reasoning was.
Maybe she thought, maybe even if she had some bad beliefs about like, oh no,
gay people are full of aides.
I don't know what, I don't know what she believes.
I don't care.
Yeah.
The point is, is that you, you guys harassed her and you canceled her out of
existence.
Well done.
Like, do you guys put that on the victory board?
Right.
I don't know.
But I just know people who, who've used that phrase.
I don't like it.
That God, that's so bizarre.
Like consent is the most, the one really important thing that all this other
stuff comes back to you and they're like, have sex with him, you bitch.
Or you're a bigot.
Yeah.
That seems weird.
There's a thing I dislike a lot.
Um, I think it's, I don't know if this is still a thing, but like, oh, it's so
bad.
So there's this thing they called the cotton ceiling.
Cotton ceiling.
Do you know this one?
No, I don't know this ceiling.
Uh, this is, uh, I think, like, particularly it was trans women
complaining that like, gay or, uh, lesbians, like they're lesbians that
don't want to have sex with trans women.
Okay.
Oh, that, that's the cotton ceiling.
Yeah.
It really seemed like a ceiling.
I was trying to figure out where it came in the glass ceiling.
Uh, yeah.
No, I mean, the glass ceiling is always like that.
You can only.
Oh, I thought the cotton was going to be tampons because that would be,
because you'd have to be, you're basically a genetic female.
If you can, if you menstruate, right?
So I understand how the ceiling comes in this, like the ceiling metaphor was
because you could only get promoted so high as a woman back in the day.
Well, you can't penetrate the cotton ceiling, I guess.
But are you getting promoted if you have sex with every lesbian?
I don't understand.
I think it's, it's obviously yes.
Oh, okay.
You got me there.
I'm going to just say yes.
Yeah.
I don't know.
There was this whole argument about, uh, that it's transphobic to not
want to have sex with a trans person of like, who identifies as the gender
that you're attracted to and there's a special carve out for sex where no
one should be feel pressure to have sex with somebody.
Yeah, it's like exactly, you know, um, whether your reasons or whatever.
Yeah.
Still like, what are you going to do?
Force people to have sex with trans people?
Like, I mean, you can, you can pressure people to do business with people
that they are bigoted against or extend them basic courtesies or whatever.
But like, when it comes to actually having sex with someone, you
don't pressure people for that.
Yeah.
There was a, hopefully not like as much of an argument or a thing anymore,
but I remember a lot of actually, like, although I can, the SJW friends of mine
that I had in the past, like, or friends of friends on Facebook,
complaining about this, like, you know, the transphobia.
And I'm just like, I mean, do you want to have sex with a transphobe?
If they hate you, like maybe don't have sex with them.
It's certainly a bummer to be attracted to someone and to know that
they won't sleep with you because of something about your body.
But I mean, I could totally see that being something people complain about
and being like, God, this sucks.
But and it's totally valid complaint.
And, you know, and it's fair to commiserate about that.
But yeah, like trying to shame someone is just awful.
Why would you want to have sex with someone who's being shamed into fucking you?
Yeah, exactly.
Or, you know, like they have a shitty opinion.
Yeah, whatever.
I don't know.
It's like it's like the reactive, you know, pendulum.
This is like the peak of it, right?
Where, you know, consent and and, you know,
what affirmative consent is, you know, the the standard that we should all like.
And like we swung past that to say, you have to have sex with some people.
Otherwise, you're a bigot. That seems weird.
That does seem weird.
I don't think that that's a sustainable position.
Even understanding this, you know, someone who like a white dude
that doesn't want to sleep with black ladies or something like maybe that's racist.
But the other hand, it's sex.
There's a special carve out for sex.
Yeah, but then you don't like force not discriminating against them.
In the workplace and in public and shit.
Right. Yeah.
I don't know.
Like, I don't know.
I don't know what the solution is to that.
It just baffled me that people were willing to argue.
I mean, you could overall just try to make people less transphobic
in a way that doesn't, you know, center the sex thing that doesn't involve
coercing. Yeah, like there's also, I guess, the beginning on every aspect.
I mean, being part of being someone who's like a member of the LGBTQA
plus whatever the hell acronym it has become now.
I think Wikipedia has 25 letters on it is kind of like your whole deal
is that you are you have like a certain orientation or preferences
or identity that is intrinsic to you.
And you're sort of trying to argue that other people shouldn't have that.
I mean, people have preferences and maybe some of them are just informed
by racism or transphobia or like fat phobia or whatever.
But like, but also like, it's so confusing.
I don't know.
You have to respect my preferences, but you don't get to have preferences.
Right.
Oh, here's here's one from Wikipedia.
LGBT, TQQ, IAP.
I feel like they're still leaving some out.
What's the second T?
Transgender, transsexual.
OK. Queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, ally, pansexual.
I think the ally in there.
I am not going to be happy until there's more letters in the acronym
than there are in the alphabet.
I think I think this is not the longest one I've seen.
So I thought I can find the longer one.
But all right, while I'm while I'm skimming Wikipedia
and we're just talking, you know, we're talking cancel adjacent questions.
What is pansexual?
I'm assuming it's not being really being into like cast iron cookware.
It's bisexual, but saying that there's more than two genders.
Yeah. Oh, so I identify as pansexual or bisexual,
depending on whether the person I'm talking to is older or younger than me.
But what if they're the same age?
Do you have to come out as both?
Oh, all right.
Another another let's get Steven Cantrell question I had was
so they're making this speaking of Mandalorian is a good segue.
OK. They're making a Last of Us TV show.
Oh, cool. Yeah. Sounds like fun. Hell, yeah.
And Pedro Pascal is playing Joel.
Oh, he would make a great show.
I'm looking forward to it. Meets.
And then they're having she was that little queen or princess
from Game of Thrones that was like on the little council in the last episode.
She she might have been a northerner, I forget.
She was like, oh, OK, I know who you're talking about.
The youngest one, the bear tribe lady.
Yeah, she was like super badass and she like shut that guy down at some point.
Yeah, so she's playing Ellie. OK.
