And that can lead to a snowball effect.
So people are, my officers will often say, don't jinx it.
Don't talk about that loot because if it drops great, everyone's happy.
But if it doesn't drop and you drew attention to it, things go downhill.
So it's more of a psychological policing than it is actual superstition.
Yeah.
If I knew that, and I didn't also know that, you know, like my wife works with
so many nurses and stuff that a lot of them are like into like astrology and
shit.
Oh, God.
But, you know, everybody, that's, I'm not sure what the percentage is anymore,
but I'm sure it's something like 30% of people are claiming to be astrology.
Yeah.
When I was working in research, I was amazed by how many scientists also, you
know, had completely irrational beliefs, like.
Typical toys.
They were talking about the office being haunted at one point.
And like everybody, I don't like, I was like joking along.
And then I realized, like, with just mounting a horror that the three people
I was talking to, yeah, like, actually, like, oh, yeah, I've definitely seen ghosts
before. Let me tell you about this one.
I was like, oh, no.
It's like, but you, you guys weren't we just doing science?
Did you forget about how science, if you guys live in ghosts, what the fuck are
we doing here?
Yeah, for real.
We just asked the ghosts.
Oh, good.
That was always, that was always my thing with ghosts and afterlife and, and, you
know, even heaven and stuff was like, I really wish it was true.
And so when I was going through my, my, I guess, modestly painful deconversion,
like I was really motivated to believe that this was, that this was the case.
And I, and partly it helps to the, or later on, I guess we're refined with the
tools because I've come to those conclusions before I discovered the
rationality community, but, you know, refining those, those thoughts with these
tools, I, I now reflexively, and it almost to the point where I can see it's
annoying. So like, I, I, you know, occasionally just keep my opinions to
myself on stuff, but where if I find myself wanting to believe something, I
immediately, like I hit at it way harder than if I find it, if I'm either like
not registering it as I don't, like if I don't care, then I'm not going to like
really invest in it.
But if I'm like, oh man, I wish this is true.
Okay, hold on.
Now I actually need to like be a hundred percent sure.
Right.
That reminds me, I, well, I guess, you know, you wouldn't know because you've recently
become lactose intolerant.
I'm looking for ethically sourced milk.
And I think I found some because it says like pasture raised on the side, but
it has two ampersands and it says according to, you know, whatever US
agricultural guidelines, I'm like, okay, so what does that mean?
Because I know that, you know, the dollar nine and nine gallons are horror
factories and I've, I've, I've been committed to this for years and I
finally actually doing it.
I'm trying to, you know, buy like nicer things that cause less damage in the
world.
And so now that I've bought two, two half gallons of this stuff and like, all
right, now I need to double che because if it's not this, I need to go find
some eight dollar gallons somewhere, or maybe it's just impossible and I have
to find, you know, I have to find myself tolerate a non-dairy alternative.
The best thing you can possibly do is find someone who you know that
owns a cow and buy milk from them, like assuming that, you know, they treat
the cow well, interview the cow first, be like, does he do bad things to you?
I don't know where I could find somebody that I knew in real life who had a
cow with enough to spare for Colorado.
I know, I know people, I know one person who lives out in Parker with, with, uh,
they have one horse and one mini horse, which is really cute.
Yeah.
I love mini horses.
Bojo, the horse, the little mini horse.
Yeah, it's very hard and it's not a scalable solution because not everyone
can know a guy that owns a cow and is nice to it because, you know, they're
just aren't enough people.
And if you wanted to get a lot of those people having nice cows, the milk
would go to $10 a gallon or whatever.
This sounds like more of an aside.
This actually is more of the point of me reflexively challenging
something I want to believe.
I was at Sprouts and it's like this, like whole food, whole foods times
two, more, more, you know, uh, hipster slash friendly, whatever.
It's there.
Sprouts and natural groceries are just like, it just feels so den-free.
Yeah, there is definitely, and it's like the most like, are they not nationwide
chains?
Maybe.
Probably.
I don't know, I don't know.
I'm not really sure.
Didn't have them in Jersey.
I'm just mentioning that it's this place that's like whole foods on steroids, on
liberal steroids, and it's great.
But there was, there was a thing of milk there.
It was like eight bucks for a half gallon.
And on the thing it said from like a single Amish farm or something.
And I'm like, there's, I, I'm calling bullshit that a single Amish farm has
the, has the technology to like, like carefully and rather like, uh, delicately
and nicely produce enough milk at scale to sell to an international, to a
national chain.
Like, so I mean, it was eight dollars for a half gallon.
Yeah, but maybe at 16 dollars a gallon.
Maybe.
So, but I'm just thinking like, okay, this firm is very large.
Yeah.
Like, all right.
Or maybe one guy, like technically it's all this one guy's farm, but it's, it's
like this dude and his wife and they're just pumping out kids.
So they have enough to milk all the cows.
I think they use machines, but I'll have to check and see if those cows are happy.
Anyway.
All right.
Uh, it ends with remember this, when you plead to be excused just this once, we
can't excuse you.
It isn't up to us.
So that was how it ends on to a priori.
Yeah.
A priori to basions.
The brain is an engine of accuracy.
If you violate the laws of rationality, the engine doesn't run.
And the type, I'm the type of text that I'm assuming to the previous post.
Yes.
Uh, this is equally true whether anyone else breaks the rules or not.
And like, I love this.
This is exactly what we're talking about, right?
And that's, you know, at a meta level, what I love about the sequences and like
the order, they were kind of just like, you know, spewed into existence.
Right.
Like he makes a good point and then like kind of refines it with another, like
another angle and that that's what this is doing.
And we like, so while analyzing the previous post, we hit some of these points
already, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Probably doesn't hurt hurt that we've both read both of these, you know, we all
read both of these posts before we started, but yeah, actually, like, I think
that there were parts of each that I was getting confused.
Like, I forgot which points were made in which I said.
Yeah.
Um, they blend together.
They blend together.
This is a good pair of posts.
All right.
Consider the problem of Occam's razor as confronted by traditional philosophers.
If two hypotheses fit the same observations equally well, well, I believe
the simpler one is more likely to be true.
You can argue that Occam's razor has worked in the past and is therefore
likely to continue to work in the future, but this itself appeals to the
predictions from Occam's razor.
Occam's razor works up until October 8th, 2007, and then stops working
thereafter is more complex, but it fits the observed evidence equally well.
Fucking love it.
Which is the date that this was written.
Yeah.
You think he knows he was being funny, like making some of these
exact points?
Yes.
Yeah.
I, yeah, it's just like, it's got a good sense of humor.
It's comedy, like, but it illustrates the point really well.
You missed the first sentence, I think, which was, uh, traditional rationalities
phrases, social rules with violations, interpretable as cheating.
If you break the rules and no one else is doing so, you're the first to
defect, making you a bad, bad person.
It seems there's no way to justify Occam's razor, except by appealing
to Occam's razor, making this argument unlikely to convince any judge who
does not already accept Occam's razor.
Yeah.
And then parenthetically, why are those, why are some of those words italicized?
Yeah, he italicized justify, appealing argument, convince, judge and accept.
And yeah, that's because all of those are words that you would try to use
when, um, making an argument when trying to convince someone of something.
I'm not going to be able to argue my, you know, you had that broken treadmill
in the basement, you're not going to be able to argue it into working.
You're using Occam's razor this way, right?
Yeah.
Look, but I plugged you in.
The other one, when I plug it in, it works.
What the hell's your problem?
Yeah, you got to manifest it though.
So I guess you just don't really want it.
Oh, this is that secret stuff?
Yeah.
I mean, that's the thing that really like, pisses me off.
But, you know, that technically, um, sounds like a thing that could be true,
that you can't justify Occam's razor without using Occam's razor, right?
The, the justified part is the key here, where the thing is we aren't
trying to justify anything.
Right.
Yeah.
And I, I was just thinking about the secret, like, I, no, no, you're good.
It's, it's like, luckily this came out right in the height of like my new
atheism, my new atheism, you know, uh, argument era.
And it was most like a courageous pop culture idea I'd encountered more
or so than like common religion.
Like cause, cause the, the obvious, uh, question that first comes up is like,
well, hey, why did I get attacked?
I didn't want that to happen.
Well, the other, you must not have not wanted it enough, which is a horrifying
thing to say, especially just a survivor of abuse or violence.
And like, there's, there's no way to, to get around that.
And so I don't, you know, this is why Oprah is number one on Skeptoids.
