team.
That's true.
Yeah.
I'm looking it up now.
Great.
Koi said on the, when we were talking about we change our minds less often than
we think, there's a you are not so smart podcast episode, which we will link that
argues for the opposite.
New research suggests that the majority of the mind change we experience after we
update our priors, we delete what we used to believe and then simply forget that
we ever believed otherwise.
This can lead to a skewed perception of the world, one that leads to the
assumption that the mind change is rare and difficult to come by.
And that can lead to our avoiding information that might expand our
understanding of the world because we assume it will have no impact.
The truth, say Wolf and Williams, is that mind change is so prevalent and
constant that the more you expose yourself to counter evidence, the more your
worldview will erode replaced by a better, more accurate one.
It's just that you probably won't realize it until you look back at old posts
on social media and cringe, which is a fascinating point.
Yeah.
That reminded me of, well, no, this is a different point where I will write or
draw something and be like, oh, this is garbage or like my memory of my past
self's like ability to create things was like, oh, it's so, you know, the more
distance I get from that, the, and when I look back, I actually like appreciate
my own stuff better because I can separate it from the thing that I have
made to just think that exists in the wild, which just shows that I'm a really
harsh critic of myself, I guess.
But, um,
It also shows growth.
I've had a couple of examples of that of digging through.
Like one of the cool things about my new job is like our CTO is like the best.
He's not even hands on his right way to do it.
He's very like interested to be involved and he wants to get spun up as fast
as possible.
So he's like, Hey, if you guys are going to work on something like as a group,
call me in.
I want to watch.
And, uh, so I get, there's been a couple of cases where I'm like, God,
who did this?
Oh, me.
Whoops.
And so then you get, you know, that's growth, right?
If you can't look at something that you did before and if, you know, if you're,
if you're no better at doing something that you've been working on for five
years than you were five years ago, you're not making progress, right?
I know I've run into this talking with other people, uh, quite a few times,
maybe quite a few times, at least a few times though, because, uh, I'm one of
those weird perverts that really enjoys arguing with strangers on the
internet and, you know, they stop being strangers.
If you argue with them long enough, uh, but, um, there's been times where like,
I'm arguing with someone and I'm like, a few months ago, you had the exact opposite
position.
What are you doing?
Just like switching around on me and they're like, no, I didn't.
I've always thought that, I don't know, Ted Cruz is the Zodiac killer.
And I'm like, no, you fucking didn't.
I'm sure I can go back and find the logs.
And, uh, that's happened a few times.
And I was just like, what the hell is happening?
I'm sure it's happened with me too.
And I just can't remember it because you don't remember having that
wrong of a position in the past.
You don't remember what you forgot.
Yeah.
I mean, I know I used to believe in God a lot like that.
I can definitely remember, but maybe there's things that I think that I've,
you know, always just kind of assumed which were not the case.
Yeah.
I mean, there's definitely part of the brain that are, uh, what would you
call it a function of the brain where it's trying to make yourself feel consistent
with your past self.
That's kind of important for feeling like a unified, coherent person.
It's got those drawbacks.
Yeah, it's, it's really worrisome.
I don't like the idea that my brain is going around editing itself so that I
have a wrong picture of me.
Yeah, but as long as you're trying to continually improve your picture of the
world, you know, at least you have a better picture of the world.
And if you're, if you're throwing, if you're garbage collecting old pictures,
you know, right, at least there's that.
Yeah, I'm not a fan of this, having my consciousness edited, even by my own
brain, the world is a mess without the editing software, though.
I definitely, uh, broke that in a weird way one time by combining drugs.
I shouldn't have.
Oh, I was like, I don't know how to make, uh, it's the worst place to take new drugs.
Yeah.
And this was not even recreational drugs.
These were, well, it was like medaffinil and some peptide from Russia.
And I don't know, uh, I was, it was super weird.
I was fine until I had one beer and it wasn't even a strong beer, like later in
the day, and then suddenly my brain just broke and my filtering software broke.
And as I would like turn my head, I could see the saccades of what looked like
sort of, uh, individual, like, like if you took a bunch of Polaroids and then
laid them out where I was kind of like, Oh God, like the actual experience of
turning your head and feeling like there's a coherent, just like picture,
like, uh, sensory data was the same.
It was, it's really hard to explain, but it was like everything was these
saccades of just like little flashes of thing that I could see that my brain was
putting together into, uh, I mean, like there's so little that like we as humans
actually see and our brain is mostly just like using software to fill in these
big gaps in our vision.
And there's the expectation that like this, uh, a cup of coffee is still going
to be there on the table.
So like object permanence.
So it's putting it there, but yeah, you can't trust your own eyes.
Even if you're not moving your eyes, you still got that big blind spot that
your brain pretends to fit or does fill in, but with the middle of your eye.
Yeah, guesses.
Um, where's your, were your thoughts doing the same thing?
Yeah, it was where you could observe the, the, the leaps in thinking.
Mostly I was just, I was first of all horrified because I was like, um, man,
I'm going to have to like call an ambulance if this doesn't wear off.
It did wear off, but like, I was just laughing at like, Oh my God, how do,
how do we drive?
We drive cars.
How do we, how do we like, I don't know, it's, it just made me aware of how
little actual sensory data we're ever actually getting and how kind of, I don't
know, very impressive.
I guess our brain softwares that we can just walk or pick, pick up a thing.
It is, yeah.
I mean, I guess it's highly optimized, but it just makes me not trust the brain.
I feel more and more like a hero in one of Richard Watts's books.
So we're just like, I'm a weird parasite living on this thing that barely
functions and it keeps editing me and I don't like any of it.
Yeah.
It's kind of ex-extentially horrifying.
It is.
Such as life.
Damn it.
Fun on the bun.
I like a GSB.
This is another bit of feedback.
Okay.
Explaining, cause I think we talked about this some weeks ago about Mott, Mott,
Bailey versus moving the goalposts.
Oh yeah.
I wanted, before you get into that, it turns out, um, Jace, you were right.
Scott Alexander, not coined the Mott and Bailey thing.
It was around before him and he just popularized it.
Yeah.
I, so I apologize.
I remembered that or I thought I did because.
Are you sure you ever believed otherwise, Enyosh?
I accept your apology, Jace.
Yeah, that's fun.
No, I remember there was someone from my Philly less wrong group was mentioning
that they were kind of annoyed that Scott had popularized Mott and Bailey
because it was not intuitive and they thought that bait and switch would have
been better because people forget which is the Mott and which is the Bailey
since they're not worried that are in the common lexicon.
All right.
And like,
Jace, just be a little smarter.
I always forget which one's which.
The Bailey is the place everyone wants to be.
The Mott is the tower.
See, I had it backwards in my head.
All right.
So the Mott is the retreat.
Okay.
Then why is it first?
Cause bait and switch, the bait is first.
And that's, that's where you're having your first, first line of argument is
out, out in the, the Bailey apparently.
Yeah.
And then you retreat to the Mott.
No, yeah.
Sorry, sorry, Scott.
You should have switched.
You should have switched him when he popularized it.
But bait and switch doesn't entirely explain the phenomenon because people
come once, you know, they drive away the arguers.
They go back out to the Bailey, whereas you don't go back out to the bait.
And then when I was back retreat to the Mott, I was going, okay, back to the
Bailey.
So the moving back and forth is an important distinction that you don't
do with baiting and switching.
Just like the most like prime example of just like, no, God doesn't want you to
have abortions.
Well, you know, hold on.
How do you know, like, you know, what do you mean?
God, like the, your, your version of religion is real.
No, no, I mean, by God, I just mean love.
Yeah.
And by that, I mean, you can't have abortions.
Yeah.
Once you're done, you know, arguing, like, okay, yeah, we all, we all accept
that love exists, and it's a great thing.
And you can base your religion on that.
Okay, good.
The person goes away.
All right.
So back to no abortions because of God saying so.
So like, sorry, this was a long, it was at the very bottom of the members list
on discord, but that's Japanese.
Koi.
Oh, great.
That's Koei.
Oh, oh, you can read Japanese.
