how much time they spent together on set, but, you know, I imagine there's
some friendliness going on.
And like, hey, this is where, you know, this is where I'm coming from.
And she was like, oh, thank you for helping me understand that.
And I think, I'm assuming she changed it or something, right?
Like, so that's how these things should go, right?
He didn't threaten to rape her or kill her or something.
He didn't embody the internet.
Yeah.
So good for him.
And it, and it seems to have worked out.
And then, so I, it took me a while because I, you know, all my stuff I read
on Reddit and I use a dope ass app called Apollo for iOS that when you, when
you open a web link through it, it automatically ad blocks it.
You really got to contact this Apollo guy and get some kind of endorsement deal going, dude.
I think I said, I'm 20 bucks a year.
I love this app.
You're doing it wrong.
But, um, so the, uh, uh, the, the built-in web browser has ad block.
And so I had to like actually look for the article because whenever I clicked
him, it's like, you have ad block enables subscribe to the New York
Times to read this one.
Not fuck you.
I'm not, I'm never going to do that.
So I defined the thing.
And so, yeah, so she got fired from working for Lucas art, Lucas films, which is
a subsidiary of Disney.
And so, um, and she did this over a post that like draw drew an equivocation
between the treatment of conservatives now in the U S and the early treatment of
Jews, pre-holy costs in Germany, like, and so, yeah, I mean,
in the term, in the, in the, in the phrasing of the 21st, 21st century
philosopher, David, who for some reason doesn't give his last name on the
mind, last name on mind killers, even though I know his last name, David said,
they can put it in his profile.
Then, then we're some real bad tweets.
I thought that put it really well.
And so like, I'm thinking about this, but that is in bad looking.
Right.
Well, and, and stupid.
Yeah.
And like, but you know, I can understand that from her lived experience.
She's watching people get, you know, kicked off platforms left and right.
I can understand.
Just like they did to the Jews.
Exactly.
Kicked off platforms.
Right.
Yeah.
So I mean, I don't get it wrong.
I can see how somebody can be a not complete idiot and feel marginalized for
being a conservative.
I don't, I don't necessarily agree with it.
I certainly think the argument to compare it to, to, uh, you know, pre pre Holocaust
Germany is insane and is overreaching argument is that, you know, they stoked
hatred of neighbors based on group affiliation.
Right.
And, uh, that's bad.
It can lead to bad things.
And I see right now a lot of my neighbor's stoking hatred against each other,
uh, because also for group affiliation, in this case, political affiliation.
Right.
And that's the steel man.
And I mean, technically she makes a good point, but on the other hand, she does
it in the worst way.
She's not very good at internet.
Yes.
It seems like, yeah, that's, that's, uh, and so I think in general, conservatives
are really, really bad at trying to do the whole, um, I don't want to say
victim game, but they, they do a very bad job of trying to gain sympathy by
comparing themselves to other groups that have been oppressed.
They haven't been competing in the oppression Olympics as long.
And they said, and it shows.
Yes.
Exactly.
Give them another 20 years and maybe they'll figure out how to do the
oppression Olympics, but for now they should just not touch that, right?
Uh, with a, I don't know, long jumping pole since we're in Olympic metaphors.
And, and so here's my thought that I had with it though is like, it's, it's a,
it's a terrible comparison to make while I can see my favorite spray.
Is it really long jumping pole or high jumping?
Well, I don't know, man.
I don't watch the Olympics.
It's a bunch of athletic people being all chatty.
So I can see this deal man immediately.
And I did when I read it and I, it's just one of those things like, all right,
you're bad at internetting, but like that seems silly.
If it was in isolation, every one thing, I think, so here's the thing.
And this is why I'm kind of torn on it is like, she, she does represent Lucas
films in her, in her, in her public life, right?
Like, like a lot of jobs, um, I imagine would say, you know, uh, in fact,
there was that whole thing where I forget it was, um, that tire company
that's based out of, uh, Ohio, good year.
They had said, you know, don't wear politically affiliated masks for COVID
stuff and that's just part of job stuff.
You know, we don't want you, we don't want people coming in and you've got
a whatever fuck black people or, um, you know, or a black lives matter mask.
Like we, we want you to just, we, we want our customers to come in and not,
that that's, this isn't the place for that, right?
But their employees can still tweet whatever they want on their own time.
I mean, the difference is that Hector is a very public role.
That, that's exactly the thing.
So it's, it kind of sucks in that regard where like the company is going
to be affiliated with her somewhat.
And so I think that that's kind of just where like, I, I don't like the idea of,
of whatever.
Now, I mean, it's not like she's out of work.
I'm sure she'll find jobs.
Oh, do you want to hear where she found work?
Uh, sure.
Ben Shapiro.
Great.
She's going to movie with him now.
Ben Shapiro's going to get a movie.
Yeah.
Oh, I know.
It's a fucking bummer.
Well, this is going to be a train wreck and good for her.
I hope she gets paid well.
No, it's not good for her.
Cause first of all, she has so much fucking talent and it's being wasted
on some Ben Shapiro shit.
And you cannot tell me that like working with him on some bullshit Ben
Shapiro movie is anything like working with Disney on their.
No.
And, you know, so it, it does suck.
I guess so, like my thing is this wasn't like a tweet in isolation.
She also tweeted, you know, conspiracy theories about the election being a fraud.
Sort of.
She, she did the, the, the bullshit fallacy of the gray.
We, we should be totally sure as if we're not totally sure.
I know, right.
You know, yes.
Like, so she, she stoked the flames of that, that, that caught, you know, that,
that led to the insurrection attempt, right?
Like, I don't, I don't think it's fair to say that she didn't.
If like, if I played the middle and where the middle is completely unreasonable,
the middle sounds, the middle sounds like a nice compromise.
You know, you think the election was a fraud.
I think it wasn't.
Let's meet in the middle and just say, let's just be sure.
But I mean, that's like, you do that about anything else.
Vaccine safety, evolution, like, you know, the thing is like, I agree.
Thank you.
Teach the controversy.
I agree with everyone who was saying that she is, um, you know,
retweeting things that are lies, that the election was not, uh, a fraud.
They're, they're, and it, the people saying that it is a fraud are often
using that as a way to push through terrible laws to disenfranchise voters.
Right.
There, it's not true.
And it is being used to justify bad things.
But on the other hand, like, I don't think that she is spreading lies to justify
bad things, what she's, she's more like a, a, you know, a canary in a
coal mine or someone setting up a flair.
She is a person who is, feels disenfranchised and like a lot of Americans
feels that something shady was going on and people are losing trust in our
electoral system.
And I think the reasons for that are because they're being lied to by their
leaders and their media to stoke mistrust in the, in the system.
Uh, but well, and she's not doing that.
She's saying like, Hey, I, I don't have trust in the system anymore.
I would like that to stop.
And like, I feel like we're killing the message for things as like, I'm feeling
disenfranchised and I don't trust our system would have been like the correct
way, I think to phrase those tweets.
Absolutely.
But, you know, bad at Twitter.
So the crime is being articulate and bad at like writing original tweets.
Cause like I said, these are retweets of pictures, right?
So it's like the, the crime is being wrong.
And like, I absolutely agree with her that the system does need to change.
We need to make it so that people have faith in the system again and don't think
there's fraud.
We can't do that unless the people who are complaining that there is fraud
start just winning elections.
No, no, we can do that by addressing the complaints and also holding the actual
leaders and media personalities who are lying in order to spread, uh, distrust
in the system accountable for doing that.
How do we hold them accountable?
I don't know, man.
I'm not a lawmaker by, by, by kicking them off places by taking
more of their megaphones.
Maybe if they're like the people doing this, um, spreading of misinformation,
but that's not her.
She's just someone who is like feeling disenfranchised and saying it loudly.
I think she has a platform.
Like, like, you know, her Twitter account, but she's not the media.
She's not a newsmaker or a politician.
Neither is Jenny McCarthy.
Yeah.
But like a lot of people are anti-vax because of her.
Well, she, she, Jenny McCarthy actually is a leader of the anti-vax movement.
Right.
Or is Jenny Carano is just an actress who's tweeting about how she's unhappy
with what's happening.
It is actually upsetting how influential actors are.
Yeah, as opposed to, like, you know, doctors or experts in fields.
Yeah.
So I'm imagining some follower of like, oh my God, love Mandalorian.
Let me follow all of them on Twitter.
