that are in your circle and you're kicked out of your circle.
And like that, that's the really insidious thing about it.
Like, you know, I, I was talking with people, I don't know, like a year ago,
about stuff like this, uh, and thought that they were good faith conversations.
I was trying to engage well.
And it turns out it wasn't any of those things.
They were just trying to find any excuse to kick me off because they, a prior,
I didn't like me.
Yeah.
Um, so like, I thought that this was like an inclusive thing and we're, we're,
you know, we're working together, but it was never a together effort.
This, the general crown thing was, was not exactly that, but it's just the general
point of like, you're not canceled by the opposition.
You're canceled by your friends.
I think, I think that's easy to not keep in mind.
And like, that's what makes it suck.
Like if she was actually friends with, uh, it wasn't Carl Wethers, was it?
It was, yeah, it was, uh, the other guy in Mandalorian, um, I don't know.
The, he was the, it sounds like she was pretty decent friends with, um, Pedro Pascal.
Yeah.
I can't remember if it was Carl Wethers or if it was, um, shoot.
Yeah.
It was, it was Carl Wethers.
He was the guy, uh, that like, I assume some charismatic as Gina would have a
lot of friends in, you know, in her workplace.
Yeah.
And now if she has to be friends with them, it's like secret friends, right?
Like if they still follow her on Twitter, they have to use all to
count or they'll get, you know, they'll get death threats.
Yeah.
They can't go to dinner with her now.
Yeah.
And so like, that's the real terrible part.
Right.
And like, so, and as you mentioned too, like now, now her friends are Ben Shapiro.
Yeah.
And so what chance of, of coming back to the light side of the forest as she
have, like, uh, the, the future does not bode well for that.
So I don't know.
It's that, that's all a bummer.
And that probably took up way more time than I meant for it too.
Right.
Okay.
Uh, we took a quick break.
We are back now.
Uh, there was someone else in our recording studio listening as we were talking.
And she has a comment right now that I thought would be really interesting to
bring into the conversation.
This is related to something we talked about much earlier.
Uh, Charlie, please take it away.
Yeah.
Hi.
So, um, when, uh, Enya was making that comment about, uh, math for babies and
just basically, um, being a shithead, it's like one of the things about, uh,
rationalists that is really unattractive to someone like me.
Um, I am not good at math.
I cannot do college level math.
Um, but that doesn't mean that I'm less intelligent than him.
It doesn't mean that I'm less ethical or moral or interested in improving myself
or less capable.
And every time I hear, uh, one of those math elitist rationalists basically stroke
themselves, uh, about how much better they are than people that aren't able to
do math like them.
It's really discouraging and it's just unattractive as a rationalist.
I appreciate that feedback.
I don't, I don't, I'm glad that good math isn't a requisite for the, uh, for
the community because I'm medium.
I don't know.
Uh, I, I never, I don't know any advanced math and it's like a glaring weakness.
And my like right, right near like history, uh, like my, my lack of knowledge
in history, my lack of knowledge of decent math is, is glaring.
But yeah, I, I took it in jest, but it's those kinds of jokes that maybe.
Yeah, I did mean it as a joke, but like looking back on it, I didn't realize
that it was a mean joke because it was a mean joke.
And it was like, ha, ha, my out group, they, they don't know how to do math.
My in group is totally all about the math.
And I mean, to be honest, my math skills have degraded quite a bit since I was in
college.
I, I am not that great at them anymore either.
I forgot a lot of the math I learned in school.
Yeah.
And, and that was, that was, it was a bad joke.
It was like one of those bad tweets that we were just talking about.
I hope I am not judged for that particular bad joke.
Cause you're, you're right.
They're as, as much of a beef as I have with philosophy, saying that
philosophy is just a thing for people who are dummies that math is not a
fair thing to say at all.
And you can't really replace all philosophy with sufficiently advanced
math, no matter how funny that sounds.
So I'm sorry about that.
And I'm trying not to be a jerk.
Math is a language.
So I'm sure there is some way you could literally turn all philosophy into math.
That would be great.
But the thing is I couldn't do the math so we couldn't communicate.
So do you want to help people understand rationality and feel like it's possible
to become a rationalist?
Or do you want them to just be like, yeah, okay, I never got past algebras.
So I guess I'll go do something else with.
I think that's one of the important things.
Like there's, especially when I was getting into the rationality community,
there's definitely a sense of like, oh, these people are all geniuses and I
can't compete.
And then you realize that's not really like the point of the, the community.
Like there are people I know and really like who just stopped the ground with
me intellectually and that's part of the fun.
And there's, there's no sense of superiority that they're, that they're
exuding like on purpose.
It's just, uh, I almost want to name names, but I don't want to embarrass them.
So I'll leave them out.
But, uh, like it's, I guess what I'm saying is that, uh, yeah, there, there's
not like a requisite, sorry, you must be this tall to ride kind of, uh, entry
into the rationality community.
As far as I'm concerned, like I, I, I suppose you can be a better rationalist
if you can do the math of decision theory in your head or know what decision
theory looks like on paper.
Um, I don't know either of those things.
So like I am like, there's, there's probably room for improvement there,
but it's not like it's keeping me from doing a podcast.
Everyone gets stuck in.
No, I mean, um, I think the point of the sequences and, uh, whatever other
tenants of rationality there are, like, wasn't it, I think it was explicitly
laid out that like you don't have to be a math genius, uh, or like any kind of
genius, if you can understand these ideas.
And I admit, I also, I think any actual way for started communicating every
email that was sort of about that, where I had never gone to a rationalist
meetup because I was scared that I wouldn't fit in, uh, where again, I also
had them, I was going to say I was fortunate.
Actually, I want to say, like I was very fortunate actually to, um, the,
the rationalist group that I first went to Philly last year, I was the
stupidest person in the room and it was great.
It was like really good to get over that fear and realize that I'm not going
to be kicked out of this group of people because like, or as long as, you
know, I, I, nobody, yeah, like had any kind of superiority complex.
And I eventually like got over the fear of like looking stupid and was like,
wait, what's that?
Or like, you know, what does that mean?
Or can you guys slow down and explain that thing?
But like, I think those are the best conversations though, where, uh, I mean,
definitely like I learned a ton just from osmosis hanging around really smart
people.
And ideally that would be, like, that would be what people who joined
this community like could get out of it.
Um, I mean, like all, you know, maybe there's one guy who can do decision
theory in his head and maybe there's like some other person who knows a
bunch of languages and some of, you know, like we all have different
strengths and weaknesses.
So like together as a group, we're going to be smarter than individual people.
And I also don't really like the kind of, or I don't know, it's, it's,
it's weird and complicated.
Um, I think the, a lot of rationalists kind of are just like this group of
like the, the nerds who were bullied.
Yeah.
So there is this sort of resentment of, you know, we like to make fun of the
sports ball or like, you know, other like stereotypes of dumb people or like,
you know, non-intellectuals.
But yeah, I, sorry, go ahead.
Oh, no, I was going to say what you said is I hear that a lot, that people
are worried they're too dumb to contribute.
And so just never show up at less wrong meetings, despite how awesome it
would be to have them there.
And like, honestly, I've posted almost nothing on less wrong ever.
I think maybe like two comments and one post, because I also don't feel
like I'm smart enough to contribute there, but I managed to, you know, get
together a little community here in Denver, where I feel we all more or less
fit in, but I don't want to perpetuate that feeling that you have to be at
less, at least, you know, this good at math to join.
And we, we, I think everyone could benefit from having more rationality
in their lives, no matter, you know, if they know the math or not.
And quite frankly, the entire world would benefit from everyone being a bit
more rational, which is why we're trying to quote, raise the sanity waterline.
And, you know, by saying that thing that I said, I was obviously trying
getting, keeping a lot of people away.
And it's good for me to be reminded of that every now and then that I can be
the jerk too, and I got to watch that.
So at least you weren't being an actual elitist jerk.
It was just a joke.
And, you know, that is very easy to put in the bucket of like, oh, great.
Yeah.
I guess I don't belong, right?
So that's, that's being an elitist jerk though.
Well, no, being an elitist jerk would be meaning it, but I'll give, I'll give you
a pass on saying bad joke is not the same thing as elitist jerk.
But no, I think that's an important distinction to make.
And I'm glad that, that you brought it up.
I was pointing at Charlie.
Thank you, Charlie.
Oh yeah, no problem.
Um, I will say make this is my final statement.
Um, I am a lot more rational now than it was two years ago before I found the
community, but I am no better at math.
Folks did not happen.
Nope.
I don't think there's math lessons.
No, but, um, there's a lot of math formulae that's, um, used to explain
rational as concepts and I can't follow my eyes glaze over.
Like, I mean, I think that fortunately it's not taught in math books.
Like, like, you know, some of the posts have math in them and where they're,
I'm trying to think of any, maybe there's a couple that are super math heavy.
