There's, yeah, the whole turf thing where apparently nobody's really
transgender, it's just men dressing in women's clothes to go in women's
bathrooms and harass them.
Well, there's, there's certainly the, the branch that thinks that and they're
bad too.
And so like, well, that's the turf thing though, right?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, there's also exclusive radical feminist.
Yes.
Yes.
There, there's the less, less horrible, but still wrong version is that, uh, once
we don't have, uh, a norm against letting people that look masculine walk
into whatever bathroom, then there won't be a safe space for women to flee to,
which has issues of its own, to say the least.
It's got plenty of issues.
Yeah.
Also, trans men don't exist, I guess, or am I trying to harass men?
How dare you?
Maybe I'm actually taking hormones and considering surgeries and
so you can see their dicks while they're peeing.
Ah, I figured out if I, if I had, and I haven't looked into the rolling
stuff too, too seriously, I'm guessing the steel man is something like, you know,
right now, if I were to follow, uh, if I were to follow my wife into the
restroom at a restaurant, yeah, people would, people would up and kick you out.
They would raise eyebrows and like, what are you doing?
Why are you following her?
Hey, is he, is he following you?
Are you okay?
Yeah.
It's kind of the response that would happen.
Yeah.
I feel like people actually would just ignore it, but maybe that's just Denver.
Uh, it depends on the place.
I'm not, I'm not prepared to conduct the experiment myself lest I get arrested.
It's actually a, a legal or against certain, I don't know.
I mean, it used to be the case from what I've been told that in milk, they
didn't really have gender assigned bathrooms.
People just went and yeah, I was going to say, I think that it's actually
illegal to have like gender specific gendered bathrooms in Denver.
If you have single, like single rooms, if you have stalls, you can still put a,
yeah, well, they do have stalls in there, but like people just didn't really care
that much.
Most of them anyway.
Well, most people, yeah, like, I don't know.
And then the normie started coming to milk and then there was issues.
Uh, wait, milk, you mean the, I, yeah, the bar here.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I don't know.
Because Steven was talking about the dairy product.
Oh, I'm sorry.
No, I knew what you're talking about, but, but, but yes, they're both called milk
and one makes sense to call milk.
And I have no idea why the bar is called milk based on milk bar.
Oh, one time I was in milk and I was using the bathroom and there were three
people in the stall next to me, definitely getting up to some stuff.
And they did actually have to have a security person come in there like,
all right, okay.
Come on, get a room, come on guys.
People got a P.
Yeah.
Well, that was the thing.
There was a long line.
It was just like, I almost feel like nobody would have cared if it hadn't been
like, like, if you weren't using a stall, would you be okay with it?
And it was like two, two girls at a guy.
Like, I remember just like watching them walk in and laughing.
It's like, oh, that's, that's nice.
We should turn a little secluded closet area into the fuck room or something.
I don't know.
Well, I think that would technically be illegal in Denver.
Yeah, I think that would be unsanitary.
Oh, well, maybe that too.
People tend to not care as much when they're on drugs.
Yes.
But yeah.
Anyway, feedback.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We're such a good podcast.
Do the math regarding the sexual revolution.
Do the math says the podcast.
Martyr made, apparently Martyr made his name of podcast was critical of the sexual
revolution when it was discussed.
The problem was that instead of being about free love, the slogan free love was
instead used to pressure people who would otherwise not want to have sex to have
sex with you and your friends.
If you were a girl and someone asked you to have sex with you and you refused,
they would accuse you of being anti-sex and withholding your love from them.
So yeah, I wasn't around in the sixties when, you know, free love was a thing.
And that's why I have this idealized image of the hippies.
But yeah, it sounds like you can even use something as innocuous as free love
to be horrible and pressure people into having sex they don't want.
Like we're talking about earlier, like free love sounds all nice and friendly
until like you read under, you know, the, the amp, you know, it's got a little
Amperser star next to it.
What are you?
Asterisk, thank you.
And the, the fine, the fine print says, well, Ampersand is the fancy and lair.
I was just saying the word asterisk, asterisk, it's fun to spell.
Anyway, the fine print says, doesn't really mean free in the usual sense.
It means people who want to have sex with people, it gets to have sex with that
person and I'm not sure if that's exactly what Martyr made is saying.
But that's, if you, if you squint, you can almost imagine that that's what it
means. Oh, free, free for me.
You know, yeah.
And of course you could have sex too.
It's just because I want it.
Yeah, that's, that's, if that's the insidious version of it, then I can see
how that would be like, again, swinging too far on the, on the pendulum of, of
what's cool, right?
Yeah.
And when you think of like everything as a reaction to the thing before it, you
know, you, you quick, you can sometimes very quickly pass the, the, the reasonable
norm you're heading for and swing full on into insanity to where you have to have
sex with people you don't have sex with.
So, or insert whatever else.
Yeah.
The world was too.
No pun intended.
God damn it.
Yeah.
Man, I, my dad grew up in the 60s and like, I remember he would talk really
fondly about just being able to hitch a ride anywhere or just being like, like
people being open to talking to each other or like helping each other out where
they're like, no, my dad, uh, being a white male who is, I guess, middle class at
the time, probably more privileged than some of the other people who did get the
shit under the stick of that.
But it's not like, you know, nice things didn't exist.
It's just that some people had to ruin them for everybody.
So he's like, like one person that has really nice things.
This is why we can't have nice things.
This is why, uh, I think things do the math.
You know, apparently I've been lurking on the discord enough to see most of these
things come up as they did.
I just don't reply to stuff.
Usually I just skim it.
I lurk.
But Dan Z said, a quick point I've seen brought up, but I'm unsure how true it
may be.
Pride Boys being designated as a terror group allows intelligence sharing among
five, the five eyes that our domestic law enforcement can't do, uh, due to the
constitutional restrictions of monitoring citizens.
So I think what, I'll just read the rest of the thing before I guess what it was.
So our law enforcement can get a better info from Canadian intelligence infiltrating
our supposed domestic terror groups.
Then our law enforcement has the rights to get by themselves.
Hopefully I phrased it in an understandable way, but that way it could be the real
reason Canada designated the proud boys as a terror group.
USA wouldn't really see much of a benefit in doing such a thing.
Cause we monitor everybody now and just kidding.
I think that makes sense.
I think you phrased it clearly.
And so if there's a special status of this is a terror group, now we, we have special
privileges due to the patriot act or whatever to pry.
Um, then it, then there's definitely benefits.
And I, I could even see definitely benefits of, of designated the proud boys as
terrorists, even if I don't give them the same street cred as Al-Qaeda.
Also, isn't that like totally fucked up though?
Like, I mean, couldn't the government just declare anyone a terrorist group because
they want to monitor them?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like rations could be a terrorist group if they think that we're spreading
whatever transphobia and, and they want to monitor us.
Sorry, I can't hear you all from all the way at the bottom of that slippery slope.
I, I know, I know.
It's not necessarily slippery.
I'm just fucking with you.
I'm saying you should have a good reason for calling someone a terrorist group rather
than we want to see what they're saying in their emails.
Right.
I totally agree.
And I don't know what, when this happened or what the justifications were, but
assuming it passes some important process, it does make sense to wear like, Hey, you
know what, these people have been enough to enough, these people have been up to
enough shit lately, we should take a look.
And these things should have, uh, expiration dates on them.
And unless you can justify renewing the expiration date on keeping them on this
list, my terrorist license expired, I need to renew it.
I mean, I think they can just get a warrant that go to a judge for, for a warrant
and, and spy on them, but they would have to actually prove that there's some reason
to spy on the warrant for searches.
But yeah, you want me to warrant for you a wiretapping for reading emails for any sort
of that kind of that's considered search.
I'm not sure what the rules are, but if the emails cross state lines or if it's a
discord server that goes, you know, transnational or, you know, transatlantic, you
know, do you need a, you can't, I don't know, you know, the LAPD can ask, you know,
Scotland Yard is the only British, uh, police agency aware from Sherlock, if they
can ask them for a warrant, you know, to monitor this discord channel, right?
Well, I mean, that's the thing.
You can, there are legal ways you can monitor people by asking for a warrant,
but that means you have some constitutional protections.
You have to prove that this person is worth spying on, or you can do an end
run around that by saying, Oh, they're a terror group.
And now you can do whatever without a warrant.
Would it be even possible to get a warrant to whatever track?
I remember like at some point, some terrorists were using a PlayStation chat.
Okay.
