Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky.
And today we are going to touch on a number of small topics plus feedback that we have
been neglecting for quite a while, but first, as always, we are doing our, what's wrong
posts?
Just like we always do.
Yeah, just like we always do.
We've actually been doing this, this way for a while.
It's, I don't even know how long it's been, at least two years now, right?
Probably.
Yeah.
Time's been weird.
We'll get through them eventually.
At this rate, yeah, give us, you know, summer 2029, probably.
I remember when I was a Jehovah's Witness, they had a thing where every week they would
read, I don't know exactly how much, it was like three, four chapters of the Bible and
do a quick little Bible study on them.
And like, it just seems like the most long thing in the world, but you keep going for
like a decade and a half and eventually you get through the entire damn Bible.
And then you start over.
So it was the thing, because after 15 years, you've kind of forgotten the earlier stuff.
Yeah, for sure.
At least the boring parts of it.
You rarely forget the bears tearing up the children.
I don't remember that.
Yeah.
Okay.
There was a part where some kids were calling, making fun of one of God's prophets.
And so he was like, fuck you, kids.
And two bears came out and ripped them all up.
Bears.
Yeah.
So I guess when we get to the end of the sequences, we should start again in the beginning.
God, I don't know.
Start the Bible.
Or start Slate Sarcotics.
Oh my God.
That would take a long time, but I would love that.
There's that curated list of Slate Sarcotics posts.
Yeah, somewhere.
Yeah.
No, I mean, I've got a bookmark somewhere, but like, we could do that instead.
Yeah.
Because there's some that are really, I mean, they're interesting, but they're kind of
special interests.
Like, there's not much to talk about to a general audience about the neurotransmitters
of depression.
Actually, that's that was one of the more interesting ones that I was going to guess
is like, I know Jayz knows a lot about and is excited about that stuff.
And I know very little about like, yeah, some of the book reviews on, you know, esoteric
topics or something or like, here's, you know,
these are some of my favorite, you know, melatonin, more than you ever wanted to know.
Right.
How long would that take to take to cover other than you're all doing it wrong?
Take one tenth of what the bottle says and do it five hours before bed is the right way
to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't be like, I'm going to take 60 milligrams and go to bed.
And it's like, no, that's your that's apparently the wrong way to do it.
Mm hmm.
Despite what the bottle says.
60 milligrams.
That would be a lot.
Or maybe six milligrams.
I forget whatever.
The correct one is like 300 micrograms.
Exactly.
Yeah.
It tends to be about the amount that they have available like at pharmacies or like one
to like five.
I can say I've definitely seen five.
I've seen higher.
Yeah.
I, the ones I got were the smallest I could find when I went there and they were three
milligrams.
So 3,000 micrograms.
I, I bite them in half, but that's still one and a half milligrams.
Just crush it, put in a liter of water and like take a shot of it every night or something
or every, you know, with dinner or something, right?
Yeah.
Just micro dose.
I mean, that is what you're doing when you're taking it correctly, micro dosing, I guess.
Or correct dosing.
Correct dosing.
Yeah.
But I mean, it's a small, it's a small amount.
Right.
I don't know.
Never mind.
Let's talk about, let's talk about a sequence.
No one can exempt you from rationalities laws.
Sounds very ominous.
I'll kick us off.
Yeah.
Sure.
Cause I can just say, of course I can exempt myself or I try to think of a funny way to
kick this off.
That wasn't very good.
One of those mutants that can exempt yourself from rationality, right?
That's right.
Like Dr. Strange.
Yep.
Just like, I got a cube.
So no, it wasn't a cube.
It was a jewel.
Necklace.
Yeah, a jewel.
And a cape.
And a cape.
And a cape.
Very loyal piece of outerwear.
And a cape.
Oh man.
So things like that always kind of weird me out because like, it's like a dog, right?
You just want something that loves you forever and will always do what you say.
But then you think about that.
You're like, do I want a slave that's happy to be a slave?
This is weird.
I picture it's just like a single-minded consciousness that's like, protect the person that I've selected
or something, right?
Yeah, but is that creepy?
It seems to have some kind of consciousness.
Like I feel like it, I don't know, I'm trying to remember the movie because I haven't read
the comics.
It kind of sets off my creepiness alert, my, you know, you're doing horrific things to
sentient minds alert.
Yeah.
No, I'm realizing that we haven't even gotten past the title and we're already like, I was
relishing in it.
But God, I have a pet peeve and then I'll shut off about it is when there's TV shows,
especially for kids that have an animal that clearly has human level intelligence, it just
doesn't talk.
Or maybe even it's like, does talk and it gets treated like a, I don't know, second
class citizen.
Like Pokemon?
Yeah.
Pokemon is an obvious, yeah.
But like, I feel like this is just everywhere where like, even the Lion King, they were
all basically human level smart and yet they ate each other.
Yeah.
And the Lions were like, no, they're cool with it, bro.
It's the circle of life.
Of course the Lions would think that.
Yeah.
And the Gazelles are just like, sorry, we're going to have to throw Johnny to the Lions
or they're going to kill us all.
Yeah, what a weird world if you really think through the implications.
Oh, that would be good.
Oh, that would be good.
It's a talent-alistic horror show.
Rationalist Lion King.
No, that would be a horror movie.
Exactly.
Okay.
So anyways, the first thing that is said and no one can exempt you from rationality's
laws is that traditional rationality is phrased in terms of social rules with violations
interpretable as cheating.
If you want me to accept a belief from you, you are obligated to provide me with a certain
amount of evidence.
If you try to get out of it, we all know you're cheating on your obligation.
The point though, well actually before we continue, does that sound more or less right?
I don't know.
Yeah, the standard like extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.
Less extraordinary claims require less extraordinary evidence.
Like if I tell you I have a bag of Doritos in my car, you might just be inclined to believe
because there's no consequence to it.
But if you were like, I don't believe you, I could go show you the Doritos.
But if I said I have Jesus Christ in my trunk, you'd be like, okay, I definitely want to
take a look at this, right?
Yeah.
I'm wondering what they mean by traditional rationality.
So when I hear that, I don't think.
When I hear that, I think of the days pre less wrong when the new atheism movement was
still a big thing.
And we would argue with theist a lot on forums and we would, you know, bring up things like
the standard A implies B, A, therefore B, you know, those or, you know, you cannot have
these two contradictory claims at the same time or things like Stephen said, where if
you make a really extraordinary claim, you need some extraordinary evidence for that.
And those were.
Traditional Stephen quote, by the way.
Yeah.
And those were things that like, I don't know, they started back from the Greeks.
I think they were refined a bit during the Enlightenment, but they were the traditional
rules of like, if you follow these rules on true statements, you will produce true statements
as a result.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just, I don't know, I thought it was interesting that it's like traditional rationality and
it's capital T, capital R. And I'm kind of like, was there even a, I mean, that the
this was like the first attempt to kind of formalize rationality, right?
Except for, I mean, there's philosophy, but there wasn't a philosophy thing.
There was rationalism, right?
There was.
Which is distinct from rationality.
But there's like, when I think traditional rationality, I think science, like especially
science 50 years ago, where like, all you had to do was say, this is my false survival
claim.
But when you think about it, like it was phrased in terms of like binary switches, right?
Like this is the evidence that would disprove it, right?
This is the evidence that would strongly indicate that I'm wrong.
