Uh, a little bit.
Choto.
And does it mean like the, the fish?
Um, this is the, that's just the, uh, what the hell do you call characters?
That, that symbolize the sound kanji?
No, um, I mean,
phony letters.
Yeah, it's the, there's a word for this.
But like when literally you're just using a symbol to mean a sound as opposed
to a pictograph.
Hmm.
Hieroglyphs.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Okay.
Anyways, back to the thing.
You were trying to sing something about GSB and Montabaley.
I like this distinction.
And I think you had some, some discussion about it, but I'm curious.
I just like, I like this one.
Uh,
Montabaley versus moving goalposts.
Cause I think we may have equivocated them or at some point some months ago, I
can't remember.
They both dismissed the evidence provided, but moving the goalposts means
demanding new evidence and a mot and Bailey means secretly modifying the
claim so as to run to the evidence, inapplicable to the claim that the
person who provided evidence slash criticism will seem unreasonable for
disagreeing with.
Right.
Like you can't disagree.
That love is great.
Right.
But then you had said, does it make more sense?
If I say that, uh, Martin Bailey dismisses evidence by modifying the
claim and moving the goalpost dismisses the evidence by modifying what
counts as efficient evidence.
Yeah.
It's like the same thing that was actually GSB earlier.
And then he, uh, wrote the second thing out to explain that in more detail.
Perfect.
Yeah.
Right on.
Cool.
Someone was asking, Hey, Stephen Zuber, I'm curious.
What was the conversation where you made somebody stop being transphobic?
I think I, I replied briefly in the chat.
Um, like very few people are on the discord compared to our number of listeners.
Yeah.
So I mean, it's, it's not as, as compelling as it sounds and this person
wasn't like transphobic in the real sense of hates trans people.
They were transphobic in the sense of Twitter would crucify them if they'd
said what they thought.
Um, so like the, so like they're ignorant.
It's great that there's that distinction.
But that's, that's, that's real transphobic and there's Twitter transphobic.
Right.
Um, no, like Jay said, they were ignorant about stuff.
And like it, it, it was really just a matter of like by patiently engaging them
with it and be like, well, hold on.
Like, what do you, what do you actually mean here?
Well, and I think it was something like street epistemologized it.
Yeah, kind of.
I mean, I don't know if it's interesting enough to get to the whole thing.
And it was a couple of years ago.
If I can remember at all, but it was like, yeah, basically, like, hold on.
What do you mean?
I think, and it was more about them saying that there were just two genders,
which might be transphobic, might not be.
It's definitely something phobic.
Um, and like this person's gay.
And I was like, all right, well, like, how is that different?
Like then someone, then some straight person telling you like, no,
there's just heterosexuality.
Like you're just, you know, going for attention or whatever.
Right.
And he's like, well, I mean, right.
Well, first of all, why the fuck are you going to do that?
Right.
Especially given for the attention.
Hey, do you want to be oppressed?
Right.
But, but this guy's upbringing as long as I get attention, he's got a religious
conservative family coming out to them was, was like really bad.
Not there's only worse stories, but it was bad for him.
Yeah.
Um, and so they actually accept him, right?
Yeah.
This is the same person I'm thinking of.
Yeah, I think so.
Okay, okay.
Um, yeah.
So I mean, it worked out, but there was a, you know, rough period.
I don't know exactly where they're at if they think he's going to hell or not.
But, you know, they're, you know, it's not like you can't come to Thanksgiving and
stuff.
So, um, but like it, it was kind of just like what eventually brought me around to
it because I, I don't have, uh, like, as far as I know, a sense of gender, the same
way that I used to have a coworker, it doesn't have a sense of smell.
And so like, I could tell him what things smelled like, but that doesn't mean
anything to him, right?
And so if someone says they have a sense of gender identity that doesn't match up
with their presentation or does or whatever, I'm just like, if you say so.
But like, I don't, I don't have that same sense that you have, but I'm totally
just inclined to take your word for it.
And just like to me, you know, whom I'm attracted to doesn't feel like a thing
that I can, I don't know, put my, like, put my finger on it.
Just, it's just a part of my cognitive experience, right?
Just like it is for him.
And so it's like, there, there's just another piece of architecture in
there for people and like, I guess, you know, and I don't know if he changed his
mind in real time with me or not, but I think it gives him something to think
about, but it was just like, at the end of the day, it's like, what, what do you
lose by, by seeding the fact that some people might be able to see more colors
than you do, right?
Like if they say they can, like, and that's my, my analogy for it, colors
or smells or something, right?
Like, because we can all imagine that unless you can't see colors or smell things.
Um, but you can also ask what you do for someone who says they can see spirits
and ghosts, like the colors thing might be the same thing.
There was a way to prove that you can see more colors, which was interesting.
Sure.
I think, well, the spirits and ghosts thing, there, there might actually be
some harm by acknowledging that belief, right?
Like if, if, uh, what was her name?
Sylvia Brown, uh, that TV psychic who would charge you $10,000, talk to your
dead uncle, um, like if, if she says that, uh, you know, if she says she can see
spirits, there actually is harm there.
But if, but if she says, I feel non gender normative and you grant that you're
not, you're not, I mean, you're not going to be, you know, huckstered out of your
money or not, you're not, so part of it, I wasn't trying to compare those.
I was trying to compare it to these seeing other colors.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah.
But if I mean, that's the thing is, you know, so if someone, that, that is a
good example to bring up though.
Someone says they have an experience that you can't have or that you don't have it.
You don't observe in yourself and, you know, one question you might ask, like,
well, what do I lose by just saying, okay, sure, go for it, right?
Like I'm, I'm, I'm pretty, I'm pretty, I'm pretty much on one side of the
fence about whether people feel like animals or not.
Like I know somebody who said that they knew somebody who was a raven.
Oh, you mean like a couple who are like.
Animal kin, they called themselves back in the mid 2000s, right?
So like, I, I don't know if I believe that, right?
I think that they're people with fond imaginations and they're, they're
having a good time, hopefully, and they don't feel like, if they feel like
they're a raven, they're not actually pulling over to eat roadkill or something,
right?
So like, you know, I know exactly how that sign kind of person feels, but I
also think they're being dumb.
So, but the thing is like, you know, if they're not like, but as far as I'm
concerned, if you're being dumb politely to yourself in your head, like I, I
don't really have a huge, I don't have a beef with it.
I think that there, it does make more sense.
I'm not, I'm not saying that, that believing you have an animal spirit is,
is, is on the same level as saying you have a non normative gender.
What I'm saying is that I can't confer, I can't confirm or deny either about
someone's loved experience, but one seems way less unreasonable to me than
another, right?
Because I know people with masculine identities and they describe that
in themselves and they presented masculine, right?
So like, for some people, it's super obvious to them.
Shania Twain, I think, uh, was that a man, I feel like a woman song.
Oh yeah.
I'm pretty sure that entire song is about feeling a gender.
Nice.
That's the thing people have.
And so it's just not something that I really observe in myself.
And according to like, whatever the random questions that people ask, um, you
know, that you can help self identify, you know, like a checklist at the, if
you go to a visit a psychiatrist, they do make a new checklist to see if
you're depressed or a schizophrenic or something.
And, or bipolar is the other big one that they have on the side of the sheet.
So like I'm, I'm what people call cis by default.
And I'm like, yep, that, that checks out.
Apparently people have done this, this homework and that makes sense to me.
So very common in this community.
Right.
There's a neuro type.
Yeah.
I, I just don't really identify with my, my meat suit all that much.
And so like, there's a lot of question.
And I identify with mine, but what you're going to do.
Yeah.
I mean, like I, I, I, so like, I think there's some people that if like, you
know, they had a blackout and they woke up like, Hey, sorry, we had to put your
brain in a new body.
Like some people would be like, no, my body.
I'd be like, what do I look like now?
Oh, weird.
Okay.
I would want to be like, is this a better body or did you give me the
shitty knock off version?
Yeah.
So I'm, I'm of the mind.
Yeah.
Unless I got put in some, you know, ramshamble one, then I'd be like, Oh,
neat.
