To, to talk.
Would it be possible to get a warrant?
Because you can't just ask PlayStation, I'm assuming.
And because it's, because it's a global network, right?
Like, is, are you seeing, is it possible to find that information at all?
Would it be possible to get enough judges on a list to where they could all sign off on it?
You only need one judge, I believe.
No, no, I can't, I'm sure there's some rules to where like the LAPD judge can't
let me spy on a, on a European citizen in Europe.
Well, if the data is in LA, you ask the LA judge.
If the data is in Europe, you'd have to ask a European judge.
Where's the data live on a Discord server?
Yeah, that's a good question.
I don't know.
Space.
So like, there's, there's a server somewhere, it physically located on the world.
You, you'd probably, is it physical?
Is it the location of the physical server?
Cause then like, you know, AWS hosts half the internet.
Their servers are around the globe.
It may be where the company is a headquartered.
Like a lot of companies have their headquarters in Vermont due to Vermont tax laws.
It could be, you go to a Vermont judge and say, you know, your company is registered
in Vermont.
We want this information that your company has access to, give it to us.
This sounds like probably why they doesn't know the nearest cause this sounds
like a pain in the ass.
Well, sure it's a pain in the ass, but it's supposed to be a pain in the ass
to spy on your own citizens.
Yeah, I can see, I can see both sides.
I mean, I, you know, I do want it to be not basically impossible to spy on somebody.
You, you have very good reason to think it's actually dangerous.
Right.
Like I think, but.
Proud boys are probably someone to keep an eye on, but there's a way to do that.
Like I'm not a fan of the Patriot Act and it should be gotten rid of.
And I guess technically it is, but they still do everything.
All right.
Was that, was that our last feedback?
I believe that was it.
Yes.
I have one quick question then.
Sure.
You have more exposure to David than, than I do is, is what's happening in Texas
right now, like a libertarian wet dream.
Like, yes, this is how it should be because there's no regulations.
So this is how this is what you would expect or is, or is this a bad example
because real examples don't exist because they're impossible.
I mean, we'll have to ask David and I guess I will ask him next week.
Uh, I don't think it's a libertarian wet dream though.
I don't think so either, but it's like, Hey, we have no regulation.
I own the monopoly.
I get to auto draft from your checking account that you pay your electric bill
with at 10 X your rate, uh, because I decided that there's a surge.
Like that all sounds like all the great things you get when there's no regulation.
You sign the piece of paper because no one else wires electricity to your house.
I don't think you have to decide there's a surge when suddenly a third
of your capacity goes down.
That's, that's definitely a restriction of supply.
Sure.
But then I guess I wonder, is that in fine print or like if you're just
flexed because say you live in Texas and let's just type with that, I
hypotheticalize Texas to where they, you know, there is, there's no public
infrastructure, quote unquote.
And so the only people piping electricity to your house get to do literally
whatever they want is that, that it kind of sounds like the point.
I guess my, my, to steal me on it would be like, and I'm not like, I, it's, I
don't think it's necessarily libertarianism versus capitalism, whatever.
But like, I think the thing would be, well, no, of course, there'd be competing
markets, right?
But in the event that there's not like only Comcast delivers internet to my
townhome complex, which means I get, I get about a third of the internet that I
pay for and I have no other options.
Right.
Yeah.
So like, I don't really, yeah, this is the whole other thing.
I don't understand, I don't understand libertarianism.
I, well, let me, let me correct that.
I understand what it's supposed to be.
I don't understand how it could ever, whatever it's supposed to actually be.
Okay.
If there's this anarcho-capitalism bullshit, then I want someone to
convince me that it's not bullshit.
I can give.
I think it's the person to do that.
He's absolutely correct.
Yeah, exactly.
I can give a guess as to what his answer is likely to be.
Okay.
I would guess it's something along the lines of, um, if that is not a truly
deregulated market and there were constraints put on, um, put on the system
by government that have made things worse.
And in a more free market, there would be possibly more people providing
this service or something.
Um, that would be my guess.
I don't know.
Fair enough.
Also, you know, you, it's Texas.
You generally don't need to winterize things in Texas because it doesn't freeze
there more than once a decade or something.
And are people willing to pay all the extra money they would have to pay for
their energy to winterize all their infrastructure?
Or is this just something they'd have to bite the bullet and accept once a decade?
If, uh, if they don't want to pay slightly higher prices.
It does freeze though.
Like they were cold and sheltered for people that were freezing to death.
Like, uh-huh.
Ted Cruz is flying to Cancun has been widely made fun of, I think appropriately.
Yeah.
You know, crossing the border to flee bad conditions.
You know, who would, who would ever do that?
Um, which we're not sending our best.
None of these jokes are mine.
I wish I was that funny.
I think most jokes are recycled or stolen, but, uh.
So yeah, I don't know.
We'll bring it up on the next mine killer, which is the other podcast I'm on
where we talk about a lot more news and, you know, culture war, mine,
killly stuff that we usually avoid on this podcast, not avoid, but we don't
touch on it as much.
We try, we try best.
We just don't focus on politics really.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we have other interests as well.
Exactly.
All right.
Well, we are, I think we're up and up here, but we're not quite done yet.
We have a patron to thank.
This time we're thanking Marie, maybe.
Or is it maybe Marie?
Or maybe it's Marie.
Yeah.
Uh, maybe it's Maybelline.
I don't know.
Now I'm confused as to what the actual name is.
No, that's the name.
It's the name is maybe Marie.
Marie, maybe.
Marie, maybe.
Okay, okay.
That's how it's written.
Sorry, I was trying to make it.
I'm guessing it's not the real name, but it would be cool if it was.
But, uh, thank you, Marie.
Yeah, thank you.
You're welcome.
Maybe, definitely.
And reminder to all of our patrons.
I know our, when this is something that's been on the backlog that we'll never
get done of like give actual like reward tiers that, you know, people might enjoy.
So what I just do is I message everybody that if I missed messaging you directly,
that's on me, just ping the, you know, message me on, message us on Patreon.
And we'll get back to you.
Anything we can do for you, let us know.
Um, within reason, we'll, we'll do whatever we can.
Cause I know like we don't, we don't put up that much additional content.
You do get access to like some of the pre-episode chatter stuff.
Um, I don't remember the last time we did a patron exclusive episode.
If ever it's been a long time.
It's been a while.
Um, I don't know if we ever did one.
So we must done at least one.
So in lieu of us having actual like bonus stuff we put out, just let us know what
we can do for you.
Yeah.
And, uh, we're, we're happy to try and accommodate.
So.
And thank you to everyone that listens and everyone who, you know, gives us money.
It really does mean a lot.
It keeps the show going.
And thank you, Marie, specifically today for doing this because you keep us going, man.
Maybe.
Or ma'am, or non.
For damn it.
Cut all this shit out.
Fine.
Marie, thank you.
You've, you've, you've helped bring the show to everybody and we're all
grateful for it.
Y'all rock.
Appreciate it.
Yeah.
Yup.
All right.
That's it.
That's it.
That's all we got.
Okay.
Goodbye, everybody.
