Hello listeners. We recorded last week's mini-sode and this episode in one sit-down
without really pausing in between. We didn't decide until after the fact that we were willing
to do two different episodes. So this one kind of picks up in the middle of a conversation,
but the transition into the actual conversation happens fairly fluidly. So forgive the unusual
opener and I hope you enjoy the episode.
I don't have a lot of practice slapping people. I might accidentally hit you in the ear and burst
your ear drum or something. I appreciate that. So there's a difference that Aristotle talks about
with voluntary versus non-voluntary and involuntary. Is this being recorded? Because Aristotle is a
this will come up so we can let's dive right in. I don't know. He's a voluntary versus a voluntary
harms. Let's say this can come up on that too. So like if I said hit me and you hit me and I
slipped off the chair and fell into this, well that's kind of on me because I asked for it.
But like if I out of nowhere pushed you and you broke the chair and broke that door, that's on me
even though like you broke it with your body, right? So that's a distinction that he draws
with between like voluntary and voluntary and non-voluntary. Non-voluntary would be like or
non-voluntary we'd be pushing in the door. Involuntary would be like succumbing to acracia
where you know you do one thing even knowing that something else is good for you. What's this
acracia thing? Acracia is when you act against your own self-interest knowingly because of a
failure of will. Okay. So you know if you're you break a diet or you cheat on your spouse or
something. I see. So you know like well I've been counting my calories but god chocolate donut
you know. I understand. So I bought donuts for the house for the first time in like months
on this weekend. No, why'd you do that? I felt like it. Probably acracia whatever. I don't really
have a I don't really have a policy against against eating unhealthy things so I have this weird
metabolism where I can eat whatever I want and never gain any weight so I've been the same
weight for like 10 years. Nice. Yeah. That's your introduction into moral philosophy. So Aristotle
is one of the the first known moral philosophers. He's big in the field. I'm not sure when we started
recording so this hopefully it was a good time. Is he? That's what the introduction to the book
that Stephen lent me today said. Okay. Or was it Socrates? It was Socrates. Socrates might not
exist. Well Plato did. It was Socrates as in Plato's writings. Yes. Well like so the interesting thing
so I guess let's start. It was a warm sunny day in ancient Greece now. My only real
beef with that is that people have been doing moral theory forever but I guess
were they really moral philosophers? Yeah. So what are could you could you list off the
eight moral philosophies? I kind of think of six or seven but I'll try. You find out whatever
one I miss. So I will say real quick though that that there is some disagreement.
It's hard to get like a straight answer out of any philosopher in general. Aristotle might not
have been a moral philosopher in the way that we would use their term now because morality had a
different connotation 2000 years ago in Greece than it does today. So like his big book on ethics
is less about like how to act right and do stuff like you know if you buy one of Peter
Singer's books it's more about how to live a good life and that doesn't necessarily entail
what we would call morality. So was he a moral philosopher? Who knows? What did you say? Okay so
the so one of them would be Aristotelian. Yeah so which is how to live a good life. Yeah virtue
ethics was Aristotle's framework in his book the Nicomachian ethics. So we've got virtue ethics is
one of them. So we've got consequentialism, deontology, ego. I thought that consequentialism
that there were multiple ones that fell under consequentialist. As of like the 1960s there are
they're basically interchangeable among philosophers up through then and today they
basically still are. Consequentialism is essentially utilitarianism. I would not say
interchangeable I would say they all fell under a similar school. So there can be vast differences
between different types of consequentialism. Now there can be and I'm sure somebody will
disagree with me. If you're a philosopher out there you're gonna find something wrong with what
I'm gonna say. But yeah so utilitarianism is the most popular version of ethical consequentialism.
Okay so I'm gonna be probably the most ignorant person in the room on this
but in the very short amount of research that I did I thought that there were multiple consequentialist
moral theories including utilitarianism and maybe egoism. Yeah so like but you an egoist
wouldn't necessarily say they're consequentialists. So like that's why I said like people use the
terms interchangeably. Okay. So consequentialism is just saying I'm gonna act in a way that will
maximize my desired outcome and that can be you know investment of your money into different
accounts or whatever. So like it doesn't have to be about you know what utilitarianism is about
in. Consequentialism analyzes the consequences. Right and utilitarianism analyzes the consequences
in as far as they maximize the well-being of the subjects of the subjects or if I ever want to
involve depending on the consequence or depending on the utilitarian. In moral philosophy I think
that they tend to conflate but yeah there is a difference. Like consequentialism is a broader
thing but if you say a consequentialist as far as your ethics I think I guess I might be wrong
but I think for the most part you're saying you're utilitarian of some flavor or another.
What what's egoism? So we know virtue ethics. We've talked about utilitarianism very briefly.
We'll get back to all of these. What's egoism? Egoism is doing it's basically what kind of what
it sounds like it's my ethical system is what's best for me and fuck you. There are better versions
of it but basically it's I'm gonna act on my own self-interest. Is that like iron randism?
Is that like objectivism? Yes no it depends okay but like broadly speaking egoism is saying
I care about what's good for me and you know if what's good for you happens to be good for me
then that's good but you know if I... An egoist would also argue that this is in general the best
way to run the world that outcomes are maximized for everyone if everyone is an egoist. An egoist
I guess that might be the case. My understanding would be that an egoist wouldn't really care
about maximizing what's great for the world. They care about what's good for them but a good
world is good for you too. Yeah and like in rand was a very strong believer that if everyone was
selfish like this the world would be a much better place that a lot of the terrible things that happen
are because people are trying to make decisions for other people that are in their best interest
even though they aren't. Well maybe that's why she created objectivism as something
separate from egoism. And maybe that's the one that's missing from my short little list here.
Yeah I'm not sure if she'd be an egoist or not. She may be an objectivist. So what is
objectivism? That's literally what she fented. Yeah it's that everything's the world is better
if everybody asks in their own self-interest acts in their own self-interest. Fair enough.
I think egoism is more personal than that so I think that that would be the distinction that I
would draw but I again if you're a philosopher you're gonna you're gonna hate this so writing with
any brief corrections. The the other couple to keep in mind are care ethics which is sort of
sort of like it's like egoism but a little broader I care about me and the people that I care about
hence the name. You know like my family friends and maybe my neighbors and you know my quote tribe
but I don't care about people in the third world or something. Another ethical framework
if you can call it that is religious motivation for ethics. I do what I believe or I'm what is
right is what's in the Bible or what God said or what my church teaches me. I've heard that called
I think command theory. Divine command theory yeah is what what's right is what God said in the Bible
right or what the gods want in. It doesn't necessarily have to be divine command every
time though sometimes it can be command of the king sure that he happens to know exactly what's
right but then you really then it's not religious motivation right yeah so if it's a religious
motivation I don't know where the word when and where divine command theory came in but in Plato's
dialogue the youth of pro socrates is talking to this guy and long story short he's asking the guy
or the guy says to him uh the guy's name is youth youth youth of pro youth of pro thank you
he said no no uh what's pious is what the gods say is pious and youth or socrates says well wait
is it pious and we can change out some of these words we can change out gods for god
and we can change out pious for good um is it good because god says it is well because socrates
points out the god the gods may disagree and so youth of pro says well it's what they're unanimous
on but since no one's since not many people now are polytheists uh we can change gods for god
so is something good because god says it's good or does god say it's good because it's good right
so if if it's good because god says it's good he could change his minds tomorrow and murder become
you know a a moral ideal right or beating children to death or something you know what
so if it's good just because god says it then it makes morality just the winds of a possible bully
right and if it's the other way around well then there's some underlying thing that god is saying
is good because it's good out there and it'll be good without god saying it too as well so
so there are things that are in theory good whether or not a god identifies them as good
yeah uh or or they're just his whims right his or her whims um I believe the the way that the
conversation went was socrates asked asked youth of pro youth of pro what is good and youth of pro
said good is what the gods love and socrates asked him do the gods love it because it is good
or is it good because the gods love it right yeah and that's that's the crux of the problem and
either way youth of pro is wrong right so or at least youth of pro doesn't know what he's talking
about which is which is kind of about every socrates and counterans yes um the the other main
problem with like a religious motivation so say you're just gonna say well I draw my my morality
from the bible but I don't like this part this part or this part but I like these two parts
so you know contemporary example might be like well I'm not gonna beat my slave there's not
have any keep slaves I'm not gonna you know stone my wife to death for for cheating on me or
something but I don't like gay people I'm gonna stick with that one so like that's a contemporary
example that some people in the United States would subscribe to but that to me suggests that
they have a separate criteria by which they're picking the rightness and wrong those things
out of the bible and they're coming to the bible with those things yeah I would I would uh phrase
it as and I think it's been phrased this way by other people that any divine command theory really
boils down to who interprets who interprets the command yeah or it could even be super straightforward
but you can look at it and say well it's it's pretty clear I'm supposed to you know kill somebody
for moving sticks on a sunday but I'm not gonna do that because I feel like that's antiquated
do you do you listen to your priest's interpretation or do you interpret it by yourself or listen to
god's interpretation that's written down in the bible well that's the problem is the bible doesn't
tell you anything directly you have to read it and interpret it yourself or take the interpretation
of someone who is more skilled in the bible reading skills as the expert extra-religionist
I'm gonna go ahead and let you have that one so it seems like we've determined that that one
we don't think it's correct yeah I think it's we don't I think I think it's the easiest to dismiss
it's one of the it's one of the easier ones to dismiss and and you guys jumped on it to dismiss
it well it totally depends on how you feel about god if you think that god does exist then it's not
quite so easy to dismiss I'm gonna make a case after we go through all of them that they're all
basically consequentialist at the bottom and I'll give you a teaser sounds exactly what like next
that sounds like exactly what a consequentialist would say it does no but so you're part of like
why you might say it's good for your kids to follow the teachings of the bible or the teachings of
your priest or whatever is because it's good for them to go to heaven afterwards well it's
got a good consequence that's what you're pushing for at the end of it right it might be good in
and of itself or the consequences god loves it and that's a good enough consequence yeah
this is not my part of it too um and that might not even have a consequence like if you don't
believe in heaven it might still be good but uh I think that that a large part of it is wanting
to go to heaven and avoid hell there are a couple others yes I'm missing the only other one I have
is relativism I want to do that one last deontology oh yeah I skim I skim to buy that really quickly
I mentioned the name of it but I mentioned what it was yeah so deontology is it's it's strict rule
based uh the most popular deontologist philosopher was Immanuel Kant and I guess the first main
popular one that goes back ages and there's contemporary ones now the the main thing is
constant formulation was called the categorical imperative where the moral action is or is to
act only in that oh what is it act only in a way by which you can uh at the same time will
that action become a universal law and that's constantly needlessly convoluted way of saying
that only do stuff that you could at the same time will everyone else do all the time without
being inconsistent uh so that rules out things like stealing and lying otherwise you're you know so
if you break a promise and you lie you're saying well I want everyone else to break their promises
to me and I want them to break their promises promises to each other and then promises don't
make any sense anymore or it's okay for me to steal but no one else well if you want a universal
law is stealing he makes this kind of case where you know if you're stealing from them they can
steal from their neighbors they can steal from you and you're basically saying it's okay to steal
from your own pocket so treat others as you would like to be treated yeah kind of but it's it's not
even how much like you would like to be treated but in the way that everyone could always shoot
each other all the time so like you might want someone to lie you might lie to your partner
and say yes you look great or you know whatever in that dress or something because you think it's
okay to tell white lies but there are no fuzzy boundaries for Kant so so the goal of the ontologist
is to find the best rules the ones that are most reflective of what actually is moral and then follow
them yes there's also a difference by what he means by moral so like the consequentialists
would say it's good by what actually happens the ontologist says the that moral moral action is
motivated from a sense of duty and the action itself is good it doesn't really matter what happens
all that matters is that you did the right thing which the goodness is evaluated by how closely
conforms to the rule rather than by what the consequences are yes so that does speak in the
worst situation where you could kill a million people and still have done the right thing but
that's i'm obviously not a deontologist so well that's that's the fun part of consequentialism
it's one of those things that does let you kill a million people and it'd be the right thing well
only if the alternative would have been killing a million and one people right whereas the deontologist
uh you know it could be killing is bad if you're a deontologist right yes yes but not so killing
somebody yourself is but even Kant gives this this long explanation of and i forget the name
the long name of the essay i sent it to you earlier um i'll put it on the the listing for
the website but it was he does articulate that in the extreme case where you're hiding somebody
who came to your door and said someone's gonna kill me you know i'm looking for sanctuary you
said yeah come hide in my basement and then that killer shows up at your house with an ax and they
said hey is that person here i want to kill him Kant would say don't lie to that person and if
that sounds like a straw man that's uh he that's his fault um he he says well you know you could
say no they're not here and then the ax murderer could wander away only to see that the person
fled your basement and is now running down the street but that seems to be like he's arguing
from adverse consequences consequences which makes him sound like a consequentialist and
presumably if you had said yeah he's right inside you would either have to kill the person to stop
them fight them to stop them or let them kill you and then or let them pass to go kill that person
i think in theory as uh as a person who is a deontologist uh the person coming to you run uh
asking for shelter would understand that you would not lie to hide the concealed presence
if they know that you're a deontologist which is kind of a bummer though right like so that
means like no hiding jews in your attic well uh it it it does mean that yes and i mean so there
there's there's no recipe by which to flex the rules at all even in an extreme case like you know
nazis at the door is this kind of like voting systems where every every moral philosophy every
moral theory has major problems in certain circumstances obviously right one no bias or
anything though no bias hey again i read the intro i didn't get much time to read the book that you
let me but the intro said that there are no right answers the intro is trying to be nice and that's
like that's like that's like that's like that's the philosophy you want to want to answer like
everything and so that's that's why i didn't say that there are no wrong answers either ooh so
like part of the reason philosophy isn't loved in the rationalist community partly because
it's bad that's an understatement pushing out bad ideas um if you can make a case for it then hey
you can write your book and we'll all read it um it doesn't matter how stupid your your belief is
we're gonna we'll take it we'll understand it as seriously as is appropriate for the field of
