What's up, Coordination? How are you doing? This episode of the Green Pill Podcast is
number two with Daniel Schmacktenberger. We are talking about the Metacrisis. You should
check out episode one of the series that we've done together, which was all about what is
the Metacrisis. We're doing a four-part series together. First one was what is the Metacrisis?
This one is one of the considerations for governance that can solve the Metacrisis, and
then we're going to go into specific Web3 projects and take a look at how they're doing
for addressing the Metacrisis. Address the Metacrisis, not solve the Metacrisis.
Very brief recap. The Metacrisis is being stuck between catastrophes and dystopias.
Basically catastrophes are coordination failures, our inability to stop climate change, existential
risks like biodiversity loss, and CRISPR, and nuclear war, and runaway AGI risk are catastrophes.
They've traditionally been solved by creating dystopias. Governments that are authoritarian
and can regulate the human activity are usually meant to prevent coordination failures. With
Daniel in our first episode, we talked about how do we build a third attractor, so basically
something that can solve for catastrophes and coordination failures, but without centralized
and corrupt systems of governance and surveillance on top of them. Looking for a third attractor,
a governance system that is decentralized, but can solve coordination failures. You
maybe see where this is going if you've been listening to the podcast for a little while
coordination. Again, four-part series. What is the Metacrisis? It was the first episode.
You should listen to that episode, but if you didn't, I've just given you a recap of what
it was about. Then we're going to talk about considerations for addressing the Metacrisis.
That's this episode, episode number two of our series with Daniel. Then we're going to talk about
Web3 projects and how they are solving for the Metacrisis, addressing the Metacrisis. In this
episode, we talked about is tech values neutral? What are the values that technology imbues in
the systems that it is within? We talked about infrastructure, social structures, and superstructures,
and we also talked about conflict theory and mistake theory. One of my favorite episodes that
we've done so far, Daniel is just so lucid, so articulate. He's thought so much about these
things. I really enjoyed this episode with Daniel Schmockenberger. The first episode that we did
with him was one of the ones that I've gotten the most positive feedback on so far. I think
that you're really going to enjoy this second episode. Without further ado, coordination.
I give you Daniel Schmockenberger. Enjoy.
The Opera Crypto Browser is the world's first web browser built for the crypto community with
Web3 support and a non-custodial wallet. Opera lets you access DeFi apps quickly and easily.
The Opera Wallet has buy, sell, and swap features, and of course lets you view your beautiful NFTs,
but the browser still lets you use any crypto wallet extension you prefer, giving you the choice
and flexibility for the Web3 world. Opera lets you view and manage all of your assets across all
the blockchains all at once, and offers seamless multi-chain support between Ethereum, Bitcoin,
Polygon, Binance Chain, and other EVMs and Layer 2s. But Opera goes even deeper than that.
Opera has a built-in homepage for crypto natives with the Opera Crypto Corner, with price charts,
news feeds, NFT updates to make sure you are always on top of your game, and it even has
Discord and Telegram integrated natively into the browser. That's crazy. Opera is truly building
the battle station for the crypto world. Check out Opera both on mobile, with Android and iOS apps,
and on desktop too. ReFi Summer has arrived, and Sello is here for it. Sello is the Layer 1
blockchain for the regenerative finance movement. It's fast, planet positive, and built for the
real world. Sello has committed towards producing a sustainable future from the very beginning,
and it is the world's first carbon-negative EVM-compatible Layer 1 blockchain. Sello has
become much more than a technology, a currency, a community, or even just a Layer 1. Sello is a
movement to create conditions of prosperity for everyone. You can soon engage with all of this
via green asset Uniswap pools on Sello, benefiting reforestation and other regenerative products
through the 2CAN protocol, MAS, and more. ReFi is also about the health of communities and resource
network is creating bankless infrastructure for circular trade and mutual credit networks
to benefit small businesses and local economies all on Sello. Follow along on Twitter to learn
more about how Sello is accelerating ReFi Summer for a positive impact on people, communities,
and the planet. If you're attending ECC, visit the Sello Saloon to learn about what's happening
on the front lines of ReFi from industry experts. Hey Daniel, thanks for coming back.
Excited to be back. Yeah, likewise. So we're doing a three or four part series together. The first
is what is the Metacrisis? This episode is going to be about the considerations for governance
that can address the Metacrisis. And then we're going to, in the next episodes, get into addressing
the Metacrisis, possibly with Web 3 and Web 3 based systems. So let's maybe dive in on considerations
for governance that can can solve the Metacrisis. How do you think about about that design space?
Yeah, and I think most people who are listening to this and working in Web 3 are
probably not thinking how do we solve the Metacrisis, meaning like how do we solve
civilization writ large? But it is important in whatever area you're working on to understand
how that relates to the other areas you aren't working on in the context of the world. And if we,
if you're working on some other area and nuclear war starts looking more eminent, you might be like,
oh, that is relevant to the topic that I'm addressing. And so obviously,
we happen to live in a moment right now where nuclear equipped superpowers are in actual armed
conflict for the first time in a long time. And climate change and AI and biotech and all the
other things, planetary boundaries and stuff we talked about. So that can't not be part of the
context if you're thinking forward, kind of at all. And I know that here, the reason people are
with you at Gitcoin as opposed to other places in the crypto world is the topic of public goods,
which is where does the economy, where do the incentive systems of the economy not rightly
orient us based on both the ownership and the kind of incentive for extraction and externalization
built into currency not rightly orient us to solve certain problems? And where do the structures of
governance not rightly orient us? And can we build a political economy? Can we build an economic
system whose incentives are more aligned with the actual world we want to bring about and where the
governance and the coordination are more aligned? And so that's why we started with the big picture
we did last time. And in this time, it's definitely not like, here, we're going to give all of the
necessary insufficient criteria for how to design a political economy and solve civilization. Like
we're not, that's more ambitious than what we're going to do. But there are a few high level
frameworks that are really important, particularly for technologists who are thinking about building
coordination technology, right? Like how do you actually design technology that can mediate
economics and mediate governance? So we're going to talk today about things like the
intersection of technology, and basically our kind of tech stack writ large, and our social
systems, and our value systems, and the world we're embedded in, and what are some of the ways
that those connect that need to be factored into the design of the tech to have it facilitate
the right kinds of things. So yeah, just kind of calibrating. I know there's a bunch of interesting
projects happening, and can we do a better job with governance if we apply
quadratic voting or this type of DAO structure or whatever, and in the next talks, we'll get into
specific things there. And so here, I just wanted to share a few more kind of structures of thought
that are important to think about at the intersection of the tech that mediates social systems.
That's one of the areas that's so interesting is for the most part, what a social system is trying
to do is to actually help the coordination and regulation of tech, right? And yet the tech
that is mediating the social system itself is a unique class of tech. It's not mining, even though
that term gets used. I mean, it's not mining of the physical substrate of the earth. It's not
waste management. It's not transportation. It's not the other things where you need to be like,
oh, maybe we need to regulate that to not have certain disruptive purposes. What is the tech
that would facilitate a social system that would in turn regulate the rest of the tech?
So it's a very interesting class of things. So yeah, that's what I'm looking forward to getting into
today. Nice. Yeah. I mean, I think that I got a lot of positive feedback about the first episode
just people really enjoying the framing of the Metacrisis as catastrophes and dystopias. And
how do we find this third attractor towards something that can solve coordination failure,
but doesn't have the centralization and maybe like the corruptness of the centralized government.
And I really, I'm just so happy that we're kind of starting to drill down for
considerations that can address the Metacrisis and appreciate you saying that we're not going to
solve civilization. We're not going to address the Metacrisis here, but it's a useful thing for
builders to have in their back pocket as they're moving forward in building this technology.
So it feels like a great place to start might be, is the technology that we're building,
does it have values embedded in it? Is the tech values neutral in any way or does it
create a slant in the social systems that we're creating in this space in some fundamental way?
Yeah, obviously, partly this question arises because we just published a paper on this with
Kinsley and his project and I sent it to you and I think it'll get linked in the show notes here
and the title kind of gives it away, technology is not values neutral. But here what we're looking
at is the way that technology affects psychologies and then affects cultures. We could also look at
how it affects social systems. But just to kind of just let's just zoom in on this part about
does tech embed values and does it affect values directly? So the thing about this,
you put a camera around your neck. It's a technology, right? It allows you to take
things in your visual field and capture them as pictures. When you have a camera around your
neck or in your hand, it affects the way you perceive the world and it affects your intention
because it extends your actuation capacity in a certain way you can now make photographs.
So all of a sudden, the little piece of grass growing through a crack in the sidewalk that
you'd have never noticed or thought of maybe that's a weed I got to get rid of. Now you might
think of zooming in and seeing this beautiful picture of the tenacity of life growing through,
you know, Anthropocene or whatever it is. And so and the birds all of a sudden get more interesting
and so you can see how literally just holding a piece of tech changes what your attention is drawn
to and kind of the meaning that is made on it and then what you do. Similarly, if you're walking
through a forest and you have a spear, you have a whole different set of attunement than if you
don't have a spear, right? If you have a chainsaw, trees mean something different, right? The moment
you're walking around a forest with a chainsaw versus you're walking around with tree climbing
shoes, trees mean something different. And so it's important to get that you could say, oh,
tech is values neutral. Chainsaws can be used to cut dead timber and support the forest or to
cut live trees. It's the values we bring to it, kind of. That's also really just profoundly naive,
simplistic thinking. Tech increases our capacity to actuate. That's right. It's an extension of
our actuation capacities. And it might be an extension of our sensory capacities, like a
telescope or whatever. But and we can connect that all, but I'll start with the actuation side.
In X, there's a way that evolution selects for our sensory processes, what we take in about the
world, our sense making, how we make sense of that to inform choice, and then our actuation
process being in a closed loop, right? Evolution only selects for the closed loop between the
information input, information processing and actuator output. Because if I evolved some capacity
to act, but I had no ability to have sensory process informing it, like it doesn't matter how
high I can jump if I don't know when I should jump or towards or away from what. So evolution would
never select for that. Evolution would also never select for a sense that I couldn't actuate, like,
oh, I can see something that's going to harm me, but I can't do shit about it. So evolution
is only selecting between the relationship between those. So of course, if you have some new actuation
capacity, it's going to direct your existing sensing capacity to pay attention to the things
that can be actuated, right? And so obviously, the chainsaw and the, and the tree climbing shoes
are going to give you a very different sense of trees. And just to give one good example, and
the reason that I'm going into this in a bit of depth and why we actually took the time to write
a paper on it is there is no metacrisis without tech, right? Like cavemen cannot destroy the world.
Chimpanzees, polar bears, or because other apex predators can't destroy the environment. And you
can't destroy the world even with stone tools and even with bronze age tools, you have to get to
industrial and then post industrial, right? And once you get up into nuclear and exponential tech,
you kind of can quickly, and you almost kind of can't avoid it if you aren't being very careful,
because that much power, especially driven with embedded growth obligations and, and
multipolar traps and stuff makes it very likely. So ultimately, it's not that the
tech itself is the problem. The tech is extending human capacities for choice. We're making choices
that are problematic, but it's not just extending our capacity for choice. It's also predisposing
it. And so it's important to understand any solution to the metacrisis is going to involve a
fundamentally different relationship with tech. And it's not just that we need to bring better
values to how we use the tech, we need to recognize that the nature of how the tech is designed
affects the values of the people that are involved. So obviously, a news feed that automatically selects
for maximum social interaction score and time on site is going to outrage and polarize and appeal
to shorter attention spans and do all that shit. It's the way the tech was designed. Now,
that doesn't mean the tech called network based media had to do that. You could design it
differently, right? You could design it where it used the same types of tech capacity to see what
would have supermajority support and upregulate that in the news feed. It could specifically
put in front of you the things that were most likely to connect you to people outside of your
existing network clusters and across memetic tribes. But that's the tech design, right? The
tech design will predispose patterns of human behavior. So I want to go a little bit deeper
in this because this is a group of tech designers and the way that tech
affects the world and creates kind of these recursion loops is a critical thing to understand.
So at first, we design technology for a specific purpose. And it's usually a fairly
narrow purpose. There's one problem we're trying to solve or maybe a cluster of two or three problems
we're trying to solve. The word externality is a word that is now pretty well known. It was not
previously, but it typically means it started with economics, right? The idea that your value
equation had revenue and expenses and there was profit, but there were some of the expenses,
some of the costs that were externalized to the value equation, meaning if I treated trees as a
natural resource, I didn't have to reproduce the trees. I could just extract them from the
balance sheet of the commons because the commons didn't have a balance sheet, right? And I can
turn into pollution in the balance sheet of the commons, but basically I was just stealing from
nature's balance sheet. It was an externalized cost where if I actually had to pay for the real
cost of that waste and pollution to be processed in the unrenewable resource, the cost of the
thing would go way up. And so that's the idea of externality in economics and it's related to
externalities in tech, right? Externality in tech is you're building something for a purpose,
but it affects other purposes that you had not planned for and that's where you get an unintended
consequence or side effect. So obviously when Facebook made that algorithm choice to maximize
engagement for advertising revenue, it wasn't trying to polarize the whole population and
break democracy and make people believe crazy stuff, but it did. That was an externality of
the design of the tech. So one of the things that I want all technologists in every field
be thinking about, particularly those working on the most fundamental technologies that support
coordination, meaning like the actual choice making of everybody at large, is to be thinking about
the externalities and their design. You're designing it for these purposes. What else
will it affect that you didn't think about? How do you think about that better and then how do
you notice it afterwards and internalize that into the process? The first type of externality
that people are used to is a physical externality. Physical externality is you make a pesticide
that is intended to help crops and it ends up killing all the pollinators and going into the
water and messing up ecosystems and that kind of thing, right? It's mediated via physical causation.
You make a laptop that's easier to carry around than a desktop and the externality is everybody
gets bad next from looking down all the time because of the ergonomics built into the portability,
right? And so physical causation creates physical externalities, but there are also psychosocial
externalities and psychosocial causation and that's the topic we kind of intro in this paper that I
