want to intro here, which is it's not just the physical tech will do a physical thing, it's also
that the tech will incentivize humans to behave differently because using that tech in a particular
way confers advantage that not using the tech doesn't confer. So it's actually tech is a
incentive to behave in the way where the use of that tech confers advantage. In changing the
pattern of behavior, you end up changing the encoding of human mind and that's where you have
a psychological effect and if that starts to happen at scale, you have a social effect.
And so we can see the most obvious examples of that with you make a social media thing where
the more likes people get, the more it gets up regulated, you start to put Instagram filters on
it and you get the psychosocial effect of an entire culture becoming more body dysmorphic and
narcissistic. What's kind of clear that you do actually like you can breed narcissism and body
dysmorphia in the entire fucking population literally because of the design of the tech,
right? The combination of the incentive and attention capture and the picture emphasis and the
you're like, that's pretty bad. Like the amount of effect it had psychosocially that quickly
compared to the amount of psychosocial effect that any religion ever had, it's just dwarfs it,
right? Like no meme otherwise outside of the tech could have spread that much change to
psychologies and cultures that quickly. So, but there are ones that have done it that deeply
because they were very significant. They just as tech is accelerating, obviously the
meaning is tech is getting to bigger scale and you can create things like Facebook that
become dominant in a very short period of time relative to say the internal combustion engine
or something else. The effects are faster and bigger. But the example I want to give because
it's so illustrative and the way I'm describing it simplifies a lot, but it's because it gives the
gestalt of it is the plow. I want people to think through the example of the plow because
we can talk about the printing press. The printing press kind of ended feudalism and ushered in
everything from science to modern education to democracy because now it didn't cost the equivalent
of $100,000 to copy a book of someone having to do it by hand who had a very rare skill set.
Everybody could have textbooks, everybody could have newspapers, everybody could have their own
Bible. So the Lutheran revolution, we didn't need the priests to interpret the limited Bible for us.
So we can see like, wow, that was a technology that this radical effect, right? And so the sovereign
individual and biology and many other people are looking at the way the current info tech will
usher in new social changes. The plow is such an interesting example because it wasn't just that
it changed our social structures, but our cultural systems in a way that the world is still so
fundamentally influenced by and to just think about it. And before we had the plow, we had
other agriculture, we had horticulture and using digging sticks and the plow was not equal in all
environments. Some places that used horses or donkeys that were also used for transportation
are different than the places that used buffalo that turn into ox. But let's just simplify it and
say the moment you can start to convert an animal's capacity, they can eat food that we
can't eat grazing and whatever, and then they can do all of this tilling and they can convert a whole
area to food production. The plow meant that the caloric output that a culture that was using
that could do compared to hunting, gathering or just the human labor digging stick was so much
greater that of course the moment that technology emerges, it kind of starts to become obligate
because the culture, any civilization that uses it stops dying in famines and they grow their
population way faster with the caloric surplus, which also means that any other culture that
doesn't is a lot more likely to lose in tribal warfare with a smaller population and things like
that. So that's actually one really interesting insight is once, if a technology confers a lot
of capacity, it also converts in theoretic advantage in a rivalrous context. So if anyone uses it,
everybody has to use it or some comparable thing or they lose. So there's a way in which
tech starts to become obligate. Doesn't necessarily mean that exact tech, but it means
the tech stack as a whole has to be competent to be able to deal with the rivalry of other groups.
So some types of changes do become obligate. Obviously, if any group develops a new piece
of military tech, it does obligate the other militaries to do something in response.
So we see that the plow kind of became obligate because it made so much more food
production capacity. But you also see that, and this is the thing that I think is so
interesting about this example, if I have an animal, let's say an ox that is being used to
draw the plow, it doesn't want to do that, right? So we have to yoke it, meaning put the plow around
it and then beat it all day long to do that thing. That requires me changing my value systems around
animals. So if you look at hunter gatherer tribes around the world in any continent,
they were pretty much all animistic. They talked about the spirit of the whale,
the spirit of the buffalo, the spirit of everything. They were cognizant of the great
cycle of life that maybe they kill the buffalo now, but they'll be put into the ground when
they die, which will grate grass and their ancestors will eat it. And that whole kind of thing,
so they could have a sense of the sacredness of the other life and be part of the cycle of life.
But it can't be animistic anymore, if I've got to beat the buffalo all day long, right?
Yeah. Box all day long. So now it's like, then the memes change from the men are not the web of
life, we're merely a strand in it, whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves in the great
circle of life. It changes from that to man's dominion over nature. The animals were put here
for our use, you know, that kind of thing. And of course, it's just a dumb animal. It's different
than us. It doesn't have feelings. It's not that different from that to slavery. Identify a difference,
remove empathy and see other sentient things as utilities for your advantage. And then a whole
kind of cultural system that sees everybody else as a utility rather than a subject to various
degrees. So so interesting as you can see that the introduction of the plow actually ended animism,
changed value systems to a more utilitarian relationship to other sentient things.
The plow couldn't be run by women because it required a more upper body strength and women
would miscarry when they were doing that. And so men were now hunting and doing the plow. The gods
changed from male and female God distributions to largely all just male God distributions. This
was covered in the Ken Wilber sex ecology and spirit and has little footnotes in there. And
then it gave a huge amount of surplus, more type more surplus than there had ever been,
which started to lead to more capacity for wealth inequality and needing to formalize ownership
rather than the tribes of the larger populations plus the ability to store huge amounts of surplus
started to mean wealth inequality and all the things that came with that which started to mean
hierarchical organization. Like wow, everything from the commodification of nature to changing
whole ecosystems to turn them from forests to row crops. So the beginning of the Anthropocene
to patriarchy to extreme wealth inequality to hierarchical governance systems were
the side effects of a technology that met some seemingly good purpose of feed the people.
And so then you're like, wow. Okay, how do we really think through if it does a thing? And then
for the people to do that, it has to code patterns of belief that go along with those patterns of
behavior. And then it's not just one technology because then you have to have the baskets to
store the grain and you have to have the thresher. So it's also part of an entire ecosystem of
technologies. Every, you get a laptop, but then you also need the external camera and the modem
and the satellites and the whatever, right? All those things. So technologies emerge in ecosystems,
the whole ecosystem of technologies ends up predisposing a whole world. So this is the topic
of a psychosocial externality that the technology is affecting our psyches inexorably all the way
from what we pay attention to to what we value to what we believe is as real. And this is where
what I want people who are technologists to think about is the physical externalities,
i.e. how much energy does it take to run the Ethereum world computer and how does that affect
climate change and all that stuff, physical externalities, but also the psychosocial externalities
and internalize those externalities into the design process, which means if we build a tool that
provides some advantage where people using that advantage are behaving differently,
how is that coding mined and then how does that code cultures and where does it do that in ways
it might be destructive and how do we think through that better and then design better?
Right. You know, one of the things I think is most interesting about this is that I kind of grew
up or maybe wanted to think that our values are what's designing the technology, but the way you
frame it is it almost feels like we're rationalizing our values to fit the technology that has the
the evolutionary advantage or the economic advantage in the web through space.
So this is half true and now we'll move. So if people haven't read Marvin Harris cultural
materialism, it's really important and great work that basically says what you just said.
Like the thing that really obviously changes is new technological capacities. Those technological
capacities required and they both enable and require changes in social systems and ideologies
and cultures, but the other ones are always playing catch up to the tech. I don't think
that's true. That's what he's arguing there. I think it's a part of the truth. I think it's
true that we can use culture to shape the way we do tech. It's also true that tech in turn
shapes culture. So it's a recursive process and you can have kind of virtuous or vicious cycles,
but one way of like this is a real politic kind of assessment, but
that the dominant ideology or the dominant narrative of a culture
is the apologism for the power structure of that culture.
Right. It kind of has to be. And so of course, if you have a crusades that are spreading
Christianity around the world, including with violence and destruction to other cultures,
that also happens to be making certain kings and emperors very profitable and have a Holy Roman
Empire that covers lots of territory or whatever. But everybody feels good about it because the
belief system of we need to spread Christendom because this is what God wants is good apologism.
Today, it's like techno capital, capitalism,
in the, you know, Pinker, Rosling, Gates, etc. sense that tech makes things better and capitalism
makes things better. So keep doing more of it. Obviously, that's the winners of the current
system making a value system where the thing they're doing is the right thing to do and everybody
should want to do more of it. So I would say critical theorists are kind of very attuned to
is the dominant narrative just a bullshit trope for the power structure. And if so,
who isn't well tended to by that power structure, which is why typically this is why justice
movement is actually an epistemic and a design movement, too. It's it's those who
got most marginalized marginalized and fucked by the system who are
the most capable of seeing where its narrative is lying. Or if not lying, at least missing
something not true. So then they can be like, Oh, this looks more like apologism for power dynamics.
And it does like a clear assessment of how a civilization should ideally work. And so then
that has the ability to either just try to tear that system down or hopefully offer a critical
perspective for how to improve it. And so what I hope happens here is as people are looking at
how do we design fundamentally new political economies, it would be, how do we make sure that
every stakeholder human and non human life is going to be affected by the second and third
order externalities, the physical and the psychosocial ones, how do we make sure that we're
in conversation with them where their where their perspectives are being factored, and we don't get
that it's an ideology of winners in something that is also creating losers and externalizing harm.
And so, yes, it is true that the generally the values we have are justifying the use of the tech.
But it can also be true that we can have a value system where we're like, No,
there's something we really value, we want to codify law to actually bind tech and not use it
in a particular way, right? We actually don't want to let the chainsaws and whatever law and
technology cut down the national parks. So the values of the people are going to
instantiate law that then binds the technology and the private incentive from not doing a
particular thing. That would be an example of the causation going the other direction.
And or like weapons ban, we actually have a value system where we just don't want to let that
thing happen. So now this comes to the framework that Marvin Harris put forward that I would like
to just make a little modification of. He following kind of Marxist analysis, even though
wouldn't call it Marxist, he said, you can think about a civilization in terms of three
major ways of kind of dividing it that all necessarily interact, what he called the
infrastructure, the social structure and the superstructure. And the infrastructure was the
whole tech stack by which the people did the things they needed to do and all the needs
were mediated. So the modes of production, transportation, waste management, energy,
all that stuff. And obviously, if we're talking about a hunter gatherer tribe, they have a tech
stack, they have spears and they have tools that are used to be able to make spears and they have
storage vessels and they have shoes and they have clothes for the to be able to be adapted
to environments that they weren't biologically adapted. And they couldn't operate without that
tech stack, right? And as soon as you move to a agrarian culture, you have a plow and you have
yoking devices and you have fencing technologies and you have storage vessels and you have
whatever all these types of things. So that's infrastructure. The social structure is the
collective agreement field. So governance, law, economics, primarily, the and the institutions
that mediated. And the superstructure is basically the values of the people, the religion, the ideology,
the how do how do we do meaning making of what the good life is that we want to orient towards.
And what Marvin Harris was kind of structuring is that the changes in infrastructure drive
changes in social structure and superstructure that without a printing press, you couldn't have
had democracy because you had to have everybody be able to have access to a newspaper and everyone
have access to textbooks and be educated. And that not only was that capacitating for democracy,
but it was also destructive for feudalism, where the concentration of power in that way
also required the concentration of knowledge where that new tool changed it. And it's interesting to
see that where the printing press was a democratizing force, it gave everybody access to something
that only a few had. After a while, it also became an even more powerful centralizing force,
right, where you have these few major broadcast stations that could now broadcast information
at a much wider distance than anybody had ever been able to for larger populations.
You see that with the internet, it was like, everybody's ability to upload their own video
was going to be this massive democratizing force and get over broadcast consolidation,
except when there's a billion videos on anything, the video player that can put them all in one
place and determine which ones I see ends up becoming accurate is what sorts it. So YouTube
and Google and Facebook become the new centralizing force that are even more powerful than the biggest
broadcast media station was before. In general, all tech, all major changes in tech tend to be
decentralizing at first because they break the existing power structure and then they tend to
become centralizing over time because some people are better at it than other people and
they get these recursive loops of the better that they get. And so to say any tech is inherently
decentralizing, you just got to think through that really well. So what I would say is that
infrastructure, social structure and superstructure all three inter-effect each other.
If you changed the economics fundamentally or certain costs had to be internalized into the
cost equation, certain technologies would not be profitable to create and they wouldn't proliferate
and other technologies would be profitable and they would proliferate. If you make law that bound
certain things, again, certain types of tech wouldn't proliferate and other ones would,
if you changed the superstructure of what people actually want and what they're willing to engage
with, it would. And so we're not saying that the value systems and the social structures can't
guide the tech. We're saying that the tech also in turn changes them. So what we want is people
who have a more inclusive value system that's starting at the level of superstructure to start
to design and build technologies where the other people's use of those technologies will also
support the growth of those same values. And where the social structures that get created,
how does the law work, how does the economics work in turn are also aligned with the proliferation
of those more inclusive values. Beautiful. You mind if I recap for a minute?
Please. Cool. So I've been taking some notes here. From the top, tech increases our ability to
actuate and also to sense. So we're all in these kind of like OODA loops, observe, orient,
decide, and act. And tech increases our ability to observe and to act. But tech doesn't just
enhance our ability to do those things. It also kind of slants by embedding our values into things.
