What's your research about?
So my background is phenomenology and I've started to look at the connection between
phenomenology and cognitive science and I especially focus on embodied cognition
and especially intersubjective types of processes that concern embodiment.
What is the prevalent model of cognition in cognitive science today?
So there is a prevalent model of cognition in cognitive science today and it's dominated for
quite a while. It goes back to the origins of cognitive science in the computational
context. So that is a model of the mind which involves computational processes,
representation. It's very much brain centered. The phrase is in the head type of processes that
basically locate the mind in the head or in the brain and the idea there is that one
can explain everything you need to know about cognition in terms of brain processes.
What is 4e cognition and how does it challenge the prevalent model?
So 4e cognition which stands for embodied, embedded, inactive and extended cognition,
the main message there is that cognition is not just in the head. It's something that involves
the body in general and also the situation of the body in the environment. So the unit of
explanation is not just neuronal processes in the brain but the whole complex of brain,
body, environment taken as a whole or as something like a gestalt where there are
dynamical relations among those different elements that have to be taken into account
if we want to get a better concept of cognition.
Could you say more about each of the 4e's?
Okay, so the 4e's. So the first is embodied and that's a very general kind of classification
of theory. Embodied cognition you could say goes back to someone like Merleau-Ponti in the
phenomenological tradition. It's something that's discussed by Varela and Thompson and Roche in
their embodied mind book of 1991 and there's been a lot of work just looking at how the body
contributes to the actual cognitive processes. So one good example of this is the role of the
hands for example in cognition and I mentioned earlier in our workshop that you could think of
this in evolutionary terms if we did not have hands it would turn out that the brain would be
very different and we would probably have a very different conception of what rationality is. So
the idea that the brain co-evolved with the body seems an important idea and that if the brain is
important in cognition which of course is not denied by 4e cognition but if the brain is important
in cognition part of the explanation of that is because it is connected to coupled with a body
and has co-evolved with it. So embodied cognition is an overall term that probably includes the
other terms which are embedded inactive and extended. So embedded usually refers to the fact
that the body is in an environment coupled to an environment in important ways. That environment is
not just physical, it's also social, there are other people out there and it's also cultural in the
sense that we engage in various practices that are often shaped by different kinds of things and
buildings and architectural features of the environment around us, the landscape of the
environment you might say. And that environment defines, helps to define different affordances
which means different possibilities for action. So that relationship to the environment seems
very important as well for understanding cognition. The inactive aspect is this idea that we are
embodied and in the environment and that our primary relationship between body and environment is
really geared towards action. The idea that we are perceiving the environment in terms of what we
can do in regard to the things around us is again tied to this notion of affordance which comes
from James Gibson's work in ecological psychology and the fact that we are tuned in or attuned to
the environment in terms of practicality of what we can do is very much part of this inactivist
conception. And the final E here which may not be the final E because other people have said oh
there are other things to add here but the notion of extended mind, this is something that develops
out of a theory of distributed cognition and also emphasizes the environment and makes very strong
claims usually about the role of instruments and objects and things in the environment and how
they constitute in a very strong way what cognition is. So extended mind conceptions usually think
of the processes of using instruments or various objects in the environment in very much as part
of the vehicles of what cognition is and playing a similar role to the role of neuronal processes
in the brain. So philosophically speaking it's based on a kind of functionalist conception of
how things work in cognition. So as I said there are people who also think well we should talk
about empathy that's another E and empathy is about intersubjectivity so that comes into play.
Other people say it should be the four E's plus A where A is affect and that we don't speak enough
about affective processes which embodied theorists think well that's about the embodied and its
embodiment is not just about action and body schematic motor control processes but it's also
about affective processes fatigue hunger those very basic things and as well as emotion and such.
Are they suggesting that affect is a form of cognition that emotions are a form of knowing?
There's a lot of work on affective cognition so it goes back to someone like Demasio who says look
you can't really talk about cognition as if it were divorced from affective factors or emotion
that in fact a lot of motivation a lot of interest which shapes our perception of the environment
are based upon these kind of affective factors and these are embodied and one has to sort of work
out how in fact they shape the way we perceive and think about things.
Is meditating with others different from meditating alone?
Yeah that was the question I asked at Dalai Lama and I didn't get a response to it. Oh he started
to talk about teaching the importance of having a teacher for meditation practice which I think
he picked up on the notion that intersubjectivity I was trying to say intersubjectivity is important
and I put the question in terms of the effects of intersubjectivity on meditation and he picked
up on the intersubjectivity idea and he talked yes indeed you know having a teacher is important
but he didn't address the question of when we meditate together when there's a group of people
meditating I wanted to know is the experience itself different than the experience that I
might have meditating by myself. So he didn't give me an answer to that I thought that would be a
nice thing to explore but in the end I thought I don't know enough about meditation and that there
are studies that show yeah things are different if you do them by yourself versus by you know with
others around and that that's the kind of thing I was looking for but doesn't the fact of intersubjectivity
contradict the belief that the mind is private? And there are still theorists who would say you
know going on this kind of dominant cognitive cognitiveist model that we can explain intersubjectivity
just by looking in the brain and you know it's about well mirror neurons or something like that
or there's theory of mind areas of the brain that you know once we understand how they work
we get what we need and that totally ignores the kind of interactive processes that happen when
there's another person you know in the room with you or you're interacting with someone
and you're seeing them face to face and a lot of people in science think well facial recognition
that's what we have to explain and it's more than recognition it's not like me just trying to
identify who it is I'm speaking to it's more like I'm engaged with the other person's face
you know I'm seeing where they're looking and if they're looking at me that's not just me
and my brain it's wow something's something else is involved
you
