so
We all we all begin as this this sort of collection of blastomers that
arises from from the fertilized egg and then eventually we become something like this
So this is a cross-section through a human torso. So look at this amazing order, right?
everything all the organs the structures everything is in the right place next to you know, the right thing and
Incredibly robust this this works correctly most of the time. So
The the the amazing thing is that is that uh, and so and so we can we can ask okay
Where does the information come from where people all say this all the time?
Where is the information encoded for this particular layout?
Well, of course, you might want to say dna, but of course we can read genomes now
dna doesn't say anything about this directly any more than it directly says anything about the shape of a spiderweb or the shape of a
of a of a termite colony
It it it provides the micro level hardware what the dna gives you are the protein sequences that every single cell gets to have
Once you have those protein sequences now comes
Physiology which happens which which I like to think of as a as a as a as a layer of software
that um is is executed by this machine which does some really interesting things and uh
The key is that even though this process is very reliable. It is not hardwired
So if you take an early mammalian embryo for example human
And you cut it in half you don't get two half embryos
What you get are two perfectly normal monosygotic twins
Each half recognizes the other half is missing and produces exactly what it needs
In fact, you can cut it into more pieces than that. So we have this notion
that
Regulative development in in animals which can do it which are most of them
um
Is a kind of navigation of morpheus space if I boil down
The shape of the the space of all possible anatomical configurations, which is a kind of quantitative morpheus space
What we want is we want to be able to reach a particular ensemble of gold states
So the target morphology of this particular species from different starting positions
Despite various local maxima and different different barriers and things like that, right?
So so we can think about morphogenesis as a navigation of this virtual space now. Here's an example
It's not just for for development regeneration does this too. So
Here's a here's a salamander known as an axolotl these guys regenerate their eyes their jaws
Their tails including spinal cord their limbs
Their ovaries
And you can see what happens in the limb if if they lose a portion of the limb and it doesn't matter where along the axis
It's lost the cells will very rapidly grow exactly what's needed and then they stop
This is the most amazing part is that they stop when do they stop
They stop when the correct salamander arm has been completed. So this means that what you really have here is a kind of
homeostatic
homeostatic process whereby
This this this this group of cells
Is able to navigate that morpho space from different positions to the right region?
Recognize that they got where they're going and then they can stop and so here's another here's another example
This is something that we discovered some years back where here's a tappel
So the tappel has the eyes the nostrils the mouth and so on
Tappels need to become frogs and in order to do that all the pieces have to move around
They have to rearrange and so you might think and people used to think that
This was somehow hardwired that every part of the face moves in a particular direction a particular amount
And then you get from being a normal tappel to a normal face
So we wanted to test this idea that this is some kind of hardwired process
And so what we did was we created these so-called Picasso tappels
So everything is is scrambled basically the eyes might be on top of the head the mouth is off to the side everything is
everything is is is messed up
and largely these type of animals result in pretty normal frogs because
All of these different organs will keep moving in novel paths
In fact sometimes having to double back if they go too far and eventually they stop when they reach the correct frog face
So what the genetics actually gives you is a kind of error minimization scheme
And we thought um really hard about
How is this possible? How is a collection of cells supposed to recognize this kind of stop condition?
Right. How does it how does it take measurements of what's going on now?
You know, how how what's the how does the attractor here work? What what's going on?
And we started thinking about um how goal seeking behavior because fundamentally that's what this is right in the cybernetic sense
This is a goal seeking system. There's a particular set of states that will expend energy to attain
Even if you try to deviate it and to push it off of that state. So how how does this work? Well, um kind of the obvious
Example is what happens in the brain and so and so in the brain we know what the hardware looks like
We know some of the behaviors of the of the software layer and there's this
There's this idea which several people have talked about today of neural decoding the idea that
If we understood how to decode the electrical activity
So this is a zebrafish movie um a movie of a zebrafish brain
in the living state as it's
Doing whatever whatever computations that it's doing if we understood how to decode this
The commitment of neuroscience is that that's where the cognition is we would know the memories the preferences the behavioral repertoire
We could we could somehow somehow decode that
Um, but the interesting thing is that this this kind of this kind of architecture is extremely ancient
And long before brains and neurons appeared you had exactly the same thing in the rest of the body
Whereas let's go back to uh to this for a second
Whereas the way this works is that the electric circuits make various decisions that are then
Used to control muscles to move your body in three-dimensional space
Where this comes from is a much more
ancient system where the same electrical circuits
Control various cell behaviors, not just muscles, but all cell behaviors cell movements cell divisions cell differentiation
Shape change and so on to move the configuration of the body in morpheus space
I think that what evolution did in in creating
Creating nervous systems is that it repurposed the system
And and of course sped optimized it because because the original system works at the scale of hours
Not milliseconds and also made some trade-offs of space for time in terms of what um what it what it measures
But what you can do then is you can think of the exact same kind of research program
That comes from neuroscience and say okay, could we use actually the all the same techniques to track the
Uh, the the physiological activity of this process and try to decode it
What what are the electrical networks of the body thinking about what memories do they have what behavioral repercussions do they have?
And so the fact is that every cell in your body has ion channels
Most cells have electrical synapses to their neighbors that selectively propagate electrical states
And and and so you can you can see here this whole this whole story of how we got to neurons from other cell types
but uh the interesting thing is that um
Most of the techniques of neuroscience in fact do not distinguish. I mean everything works
We've we've we've carried over many things from neuroscience into other contexts. And so
The kinds of things that serve as neural inspirations for ai and for for intelligence for
Consciousness a few people talked about consciousness the mechanisms of all this are in fact ubiquitous in the body. They're everywhere
There are there are very few
Of the kinds of things that certain theories of consciousness. Uh, for example, um
Talk about in the brain most of these underlying processes are actually ubiquitous
And so so that that may have implications for for for where we think consciousness could be could be found
So I want to show you just one one example. Uh, this is a
time-lapse video of an early frog embryo putting its face together
So here this is this is the the way we do the imaging is with a voltage sensitive fluorescent dye
Very similar to how you might look at the electrical activity in the brain
And one frame out of that video looks like this. This is a snapshot of an early
Uh of an early pre pattern that tells these cells where all the organs of the face are going to go
Here's where the first eye is going to go. Here's where the mouth is going to go the placards
This is this is a glimpse of a deco and the reason I'm showing you this is because this is one of the easiest to decode
In fact, it almost looks like a face. We call this the electric face
This is a snapshot of what the tissue is thinking as it prepares to turn on the various gene expression domains
That are actually going to build these various organs and we know it's functional
We it's instructive because if you move any of this if you change these states
The anatomy follows and I'll show you a few examples of that
So so so tracking this is all well and good, but we want to make
Changes we want to make fun. We want to be able to do functional experiments and for that
We don't use electric fields. We don't use electrodes really. We don't but no no magnetics. No em waves
We basically uh appropriate all the tools of neuroscience. So for these
electrical synapses these gap junctions we can
Change the topology or the connectivity of the network by opening and closing these things or introduce some new ones
For the actual and this this is similar to
Controlling the synaptic plasticity
This is the intrinsic plasticity where we can go in and directly change the voltage of individual cells
Either pharmacologically by opening and closing channels or quite specifically with optogenetics
So we can use light to to trigger specific voltage changes
And of course we can do we can do this at the neurotransmitter level as well
And so we have the ability to basically to do what people like tana gala do when they
Try to incept false memories into the brains of mice
We can incept false pattern memories into non neural tissues
And so all of the tool these kind of bench top techniques
Including the the kind of the conceptual stuff, you know perceptual control theory active influence
All these kinds of things we we use them routinely to address things going on in the in navigating morpheus space
So here's an example
I showed you that electric face. We showed you there's a there's a particular pattern that that controls where the eye goes
So we simply said okay, could we uh artificially establish that same bioelectric pattern somewhere else in the body
What what would happen?
And so here's what happens the way we do it was in this particular case
We injected RNA encoding an ion channel a potassium channel that
Established a little a little spatial domain and the and the code by the way is is is multicellular
It's not singles. It's not a single cell code. So we established a multicellular domain of the right voltage
And sure enough these cells build a complete eye
They can make this eye anywhere in the gut on the tail anywhere now notice a few interesting things about this first of all
It's extremely modular what we are not doing here
Is telling individual stem cells what to be we are not providing enough information to actually build an eye
We have no idea how to build an eye
It eyes have all of these complex structures inside what we're doing is providing a very high level
Subroutine call. It's a trigger that says build an eye here downstream of that are all the gene expressions the cell movements everything else
That is the implementation machinery
but the trigger that um that goal directed behavior that that that movement in morpheus space that causes
These these cells to move from from what?
They're their old kind of morphology was to a to an eye shape all of that is triggered by a fairly simple
Bioelectrical state it's it's almost a stimulus that causes a you know trigger that causes a complex behavior
Now the other amazing thing is this
This this right here is a cross-section through an ectopic lens
Like this that's sitting out in the tail of a of a tadpole somewhere that we induced the blue cells here are the ones that
Bear the ectopic ion channel this potassium channel and they're blue because of beta galactosidase label
So we can tell which cells we actually injected
All the rest of these cells that are participating in making this nice lens are not labeled
Now what happened here is that when we injected this we didn't get enough cells to make a proper lens
And so the first instructive interaction was when we told these cells
You should make an eye with our with our voltage signal
But then what they have the competency to do is to recruit their neighbors
They uh the the system can tell that there's not enough of these guys to make an eye
And so they recruit as many of their neighbors as needed to actually make this would make this uh complete organ
We didn't do any of that that's that's built in that's a built-in competency to the system
The plasticity of this of the system is ready to
receive large organ level uh information to rearrange that large scale structure and have new behaviors and by the way
trigger downstream
Cascades such as recruiting other other other cell types and and this of course is found in other types of collective intelligence
So so ants and termites will um
You know recruit their their buddies when when there's a task to be done
That's that's you know kind of requires more of them
So there's this there's this these amazing
interesting competencies
Now i want to show you i want to want to show you uh
Another way to uh to interact with these pattern memories. So so here here here are our plan area
So one head one tail. This is a normal normal worm. If you look at where the gene expression is
Well, the anterior marker of course is at the head telling you one head uh one tail and um
What what this what this guy will do if we if we chop off the head and the tail that middle fragment will give you a nice
One-headed worm 100 of the time. They're extremely uh robust with this
But what we notice now now you might ask so so there's this fragment. How does it know how many heads it's supposed to have?
right and how does it know
You know these cells up here will make a tail these cells here will make a head
But they're right next to each other when you cut them apart. How do they know what they're supposed to make?
So we looked and we found this this voltage gradient that basically this is a map of this of this animal telling us
Oh, yeah one head one tail and that in fact is what they built
So so what we did was we worked out a pharmacological way
And by the way, uh, some of these things uh are exactly uh mirroring. So so so um, so uh general anesthetics
Right if you want a bunch of cells to forget what they're supposed to be doing general anesthetic is a really good way to do that
um, so there's some nice, uh, there's some nice um
Analogies to to to the coherence of minds and so on so so what you can do is you can
Uh produce a different pattern that says two heads and this is this is quite messy
The technology still is still quite young but you can produce this pattern
And if you do that in this animal when you cut him he will produce a two-headed animal
This is not photoshop. These are real real live worms
Even though the genetics are untouched the hardware is exactly the same
There's nothing wrong with the with the genetics here. We didn't edit the genome
And and the other critical thing is that this map is not a map of this two-headed body
