That we can recognize each other in that way.
And I think that's certainly possible.
But, you know, and I also, I take your point about the struggle.
That's a very deep thing that I don't know yet what to say about that.
But I will tell you that it's more like, there's a,
I'll send this around later on.
We don't have the time for me to read this all out.
But there's a poem, I guess, is what it is by
Oraya Mountain Dreamer that basically talks about
this very issue, which are these, you know, it's,
what keeps you up at night, you know, like that,
it's not that like, you know, I'm not claiming that life is supposed to be a struggle,
but having shared concerns,
which automatically presupposes, right, that you've got goals
and that you are not a constant, you know, the paradox of transformation
and all of these things that are fundamentally kind of,
you know, even if we are in harmony and so on,
I still think that these fundamental big questions,
as far as what we are and what we ought to be doing, you know, these,
I just don't see, and maybe this is my own limited development,
but I don't see any way of getting rid of those,
even with the love and the IQ and everything else,
I don't see any way of getting rid of those fundamental questions
that are supposed to be keeping us up at night.
And that, you know, I'll send this around.
This kind of says that he said it better than I ever could.
I like the emphasis on the relationship in what you had to say, Richard,
because I believe the relationships are absolutely fundamental
it's not about a thing that is atomistically angsting about its survival,
but it's already constituted by a web of interconnections
and is part of that.
And heaven knows, I mean, I'm not going to deny that life is very often a struggle,
it surely is, but there's also a lot left out of the picture
if we focus only on that.
And we've had this about evolution, that evolution used to be presented
as purely a matter of competition, but we know that it's more a matter of collaboration
than it is of competition, though competition plays a very important part.
So there's a lot of relational stuff that's very important to the existence of a being.
And I don't know how...
You see, I think to go back to your paramecium,
I think if you make the creature simple enough
that you can actually have bits of other paramecia
in a way you've sort of done the Lego job on it, you've taken it apart
and you go, well, if I put this back in there and back in there and back in there
with any luck it'll take off again.
But you haven't really created anything there, all you've done is reverse an act of destruction.
Because the thing itself is not created by humans or by anything like that.
We don't have to be from the same tree of life in the sense that
there are many branches of it, of course, and so forth.
But there has to be a recognition that whatever we do
that helps us by saying, look, we made a paramecium,
what we're really doing is piggybacking on something that nature has given us
that we don't fully understand, but we've just about to reverse something.
It's not terribly different from doing a heart transplant.
You know, a person needs a heart, there is a heart, put the heart in.
But of course, what's really exciting and interesting about heart transplants
is it's not an urban myth.
It's how, so many accounts of this, how after a heart transplant
the person takes on something of the person whose heart they've received.
And I know of one senior surgeon at Hairstock in this country,
which is a centre for transplants, who gave up doing his work
because he was so spooked by what he was doing to people.
So even when we think we're doing a kind of parts job,
we don't really know what kind of a hole is coming with it.
We're fixated on the idea that everything can be broken down into parts
and then reconstituted, if you like.
But I think the relationship between parts and holes is greatly misunderstood.
Don't want to keep banging on about that, but it is important.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That I think is absolutely critical.
And I've been giving a couple of talks about this and writing some about this too.
You know, this idea that we know automatically what we have
when we understand the parts, you know, it's just completely wrong,
but very pervasive.
And I think, I agree with you about taking apart the paramecium and all that.
Let's go even further down then.
And there's this emerging field of active matter,
which I think is extremely interesting.
And I think it really, see a lot of people think that this sort of undermines
the kind of humanist, organist things that we've been saying here
and I think it's just the opposite.
I think all of this work on these amazing, unpredictable, emergent properties
of very simple systems are actually highlighting exactly what we started out with,
which is this claim that deep cognition is in some way a feature of the universe
and that we're, you know, in many ways just basically pulling these out of,
when we create these machines, these physical bodies,
we're basically just pulling out some interesting things
out of some platonic space of minds out there.
You can, there is truly minimal matter.
We're talking about two or three chemicals at most.
I mean, that's it.
So this is not like taking apart some complex paramecium
because we don't really know how this is.
This is literally like you see all the ingredients.
It's just three of them.
And what you're starting to see is unexpected problem solving behavior.
Now, I'm not claiming that this is, of course, got all the richness of the human experience,
of course, but I think that the thing that you've got with a paramecium
can already be sort of begun.
And I know you may not like the slippage,
but I really think it's a continuum, right?
You've already got it there and you didn't put it, I agree with you on this.
There are parts that you did, which is to put together the physical system
and there are aspects of the whole that you did not put in.
You didn't create, you didn't predict, you didn't know it was going to be there.
None of those are on you.
What you created was a physical manifestation that seems to, you know,
somehow pull down some of these dynamics that we have a very poor understanding of.
And on a further note of Concord before we finish,
I'd just like to say, no, I don't consider that the kind of slippage that was worrying me at all.
I too believe that, well, we don't think that we'd not equipped to understand
what consciousness exactly is or even what matter is.
But I do believe that all of that seamlessly, it is a continuum towards,
I don't make a hard and fast difference between animosity and inanimacy.
I think that they are extensions and this is why consciousness doesn't need to begin with life.
It's there anyway.
And so is some kind of direction, not a direction that is that of a tinkering God engineer,
but some sort of sense of urgent towards something complex and beautiful, I believe,
this divergence of why is it that cosmos produce such amazing variety?
Because this is the unpacking of potential that's within that whole.
And so I absolutely agree with you that I would expect to see just what you're describing from these three chemicals.
You know, and I asked him, the scientist who makes these things,
I asked him, how long did you have to search for to find these three chemicals?
You know, they run mazes and they do all kinds of stuff.
And I said, how long did you have to search for to pick the right three chemicals?
He says, these were the first three things on my shelf, I tried.
And so that tells me, okay, what else is out there?
You know, that if this was the first thing you tried, my God, what else is out there?
So this space of possible implementations is not sparse, I don't think.
I think it's incredibly dense with these things.
Yes, possibly limitless, yeah.
