that's not going to help.
You want a human experience.
Because I'm not sure I want a human experience necessarily.
I think I could get along with an alien
that didn't have a human experience.
But what I do think we need to share
is that basic existential struggle,
that auto-poesis where you constructed yourself
from your bootstraps at the beginning of,
and there's a lot more that can be said about this,
from scratch, from parts.
And you didn't know ahead of time
as you were coming into this world what you were
or what your parts are,
what you're where the boundary between you and the world is,
what your effectors are, what you said.
All of that had to be self-constructed.
You are in danger of disappearing pretty much at any moment.
And so these are the sorts of things,
this lack of a better terminology,
this existential struggle,
which current machines and robots and such don't have.
They're told from day one, this is your body,
here's the border between you and the outside world,
this is what you're going to do.
You get all the energy you want,
all of these things are completely different from us.
So that's where I would pin it.
I wouldn't, I think it's more about that.
It's more about knowing that we are both facing
the same kind of fundamental existential problem in the world
of figuring out who and what we are
and where we begin and where we end.
And from that, I think we can build rich,
fruitful, ethical relationships with things
that have that origin story,
even if they are nothing like us and so on.
Interesting.
Wouldn't they have to have experience though, Mike?
You know, in a way, what you said is
the machine knows all this stuff
because it's been told it, yes.
And that is absolutely non-experiential.
What you're saying about a human being
is that we learn everything through experience.
Well, let me qualify that
because we know that there's a lot
that is inherited in some way.
And that seems to be getting more complicated
and difficult to follow than it once was,
quite where that's coming from and what it is.
But still, there is that shape
and it's therefore to do with experience.
And if you were in a spaceship
with something that you didn't know
had any kind of experience
but was just programmed to say certain things,
I think that would undermine for me
entirely any quality in it
because there would be no shared feelings.
We seem to glide away from whatever you want to call it,
feeling, experience, emotion, consciousness.
These things that give us everything, actually, that matters.
I mean, as soon as you start to think about it,
everything that really makes life worth living
is not something that you can measure in the lab,
find or insert in another creature.
I mean, what is love?
Love is indisputably in existence.
I mean, anyone who's had any kind of a life
must be people who've never experienced love, very sadly.
But it would be mad to deny it,
but we can't say anything about it,
where it is, how big it is,
or how to put it into another object or a being.
It's not like that.
And so, that's just one example,
and you could say the same thing about beauty and truth and so on.
What you can do, and what people like me
who are interested in the brain can do,
is seem to answer a question,
but actually answering a completely different question.
They're saying, what goes on in the brain when you experience X,
which is not the same as what is X at all?
And so, that's another slippage
that we need to be wary of.
Oh, do you think I'm missing something there?
Well, no, I agree with all of that at the human level.
I just, and I'm sorry to keep beating the same sort of drum,
but when you say experience,
I immediately think of a single-cell organism.
And I think what is, which I do think has real experiences
in exactly the same way that we do.
And so, what does that experience look like?
Well, you know, here comes a noxious bit of salt or something,
and one can give an account of the processes
that are involved in that experience.
And then there's a causal structure,
so this thing will learn from that experience
and never try to not come back to that same area,
and it will be stressed.
And because it's stressed, it will make other mistakes
and all of these things that we would readily understand.
And I think that the fact that all of the details
about that story could have been swapped out,
and in fact, at some point, at that level,
will be reproducible.
I just, I just, I cannot fathom what,
like what would be the barrier, you know,
100 years from now from people synthetically reproducing
those events with all of the causal structure
that, you know, everything that follows.
I just, it seems inevitable to me that people will be able
to reproduce that at some point.
And I think that will be a real experience.
I think if it's real in the paramecium,
I mean, I guess the question is,
what are we going to do when 100 years from now somebody says,
look, I've put this thing together from scratch.
It does all of the things the paramecium does.
I agree with you that the paramecium has real feeling.
Why does my construct not, right?
Why don't I need to morally worry about it?
Because I actually think that,
I actually think it's very dangerous to make those kind of
distinctions because they lead to you being able to discount
in a kind of ethical concern way things that we really should be
worried about for that reason, you know.
I just don't know what the answer then would be.
Why, if we buy it in the paramecium,
why would we not buy it in another construct that was,
you know, sort of technologically attainable at some point?
I'm going to, if I may take issue with you, Mike,
about the struggle for existence.
I think that's really interesting to say,
you know, it doesn't have to be made from the same stuff.
It doesn't have to have been from the same evolutionary lineage.
It doesn't have to have been part of the same tree of life as me.
But if it has, if there's a struggle for existence,
which is meaningful to it, then we have something in common.
If I heard you right.
So I don't think I want to go that way.
I don't want to view my existence as a struggle even.
I don't think life is a struggle for existence.
That's part of the mythology created around the
separateness of me and everything else.
Life is really a harmonious resonance between me and everything else,
not a separateness, not a me trying to persist
whilst everything else that's not me doesn't matter to me.
All of the meaning is taken from my relationship to
between me and the other.
So if I would, I would gravitate towards something like
I seem more likely to have a genuine relationship with something
in a way that matters to me and is meaningful to me.
If it has the same harmonic depth that I do,
that there's multiple levels of causal structure inside it
in the same way that I do.
But how am I going to know that if it's not in the same key as me?
If it's operating...
So you can build a song out of...
You start with a particular fundamental
and you add lots of other harmonics
and you take some particular harmonics out
and you phase shift some others
and you look at the intervals between them
and you create this construct which has lots of harmonic depths to it.
And now it meets another song.
And do they have any relationship to one another?
It's like, well, if they really weren't built from the same fundamental,
then they could be discordant with each other
at every level of that hierarchy
in a way that they just don't dance together at all.
I think that what that will look like to us
is not another living thing that we can't get on with.
What that looks like to us is nothing at all,
that it has no harmonic resonance with us at any causal scale.
We can't even see it. It's not even there.
But to the extent that things are there,
it's because they're built from a similar harmonic scale as we are.
And when one song meets another and it says,
oh, look how we are harmonizing together,
how we're jazzing together here,
it's because, oh, I've got part of that refrain too.
Oh, yeah, I know that.
That little refrain makes sense to me.
I've heard it before.
Look how it fits together with mine.
And the only way that it fits together with mine
is because we are actually different branches of the same tree
drawn from the same fundamental
because there isn't any reason for us to harmonize with one another otherwise.
Yeah.
Well, I agree completely that it may be extremely difficult,
if not impossible to really be able to tell that
when your implementation is significantly different.
And so this is something, I always come back to the,
I mean, this has been retread in science fiction from day one,
that there may be intelligences that are so alien
that we are just not smart enough.
And our concepts are just not mapping at all.
