that it's something that these creatures will do to us
in a sort of willful way.
But in fact, I think they are dangerous
simply because people will mistake themselves
for these machines and the machines for themselves.
Because the whole way of thinking
about what we're doing, who we are and so on
has become so narrow.
Children have taught from a very early age
that really we're machines.
And in fact, in an amazing royal institution lecture
to children, the lecture begins by saying, you know,
it's wonderful, take a look at one another.
And this is marvelous
because you're all just complicated machines.
That seems like a harmless remark
in the sort of world in which we move,
but packed into it is something longer
than the encyclopedia Britannica
about how we conceive of what life is,
what we're doing here and what our goal should be.
Even the phrase, goal directed,
which I know Mike was using and everybody does,
is only a part of what we do.
It's what the left hemisphere,
which is designed to have a goal
and go straight for it and get it, does.
But I'd like to put it another way
that there are things to which we are attracted.
It's not so much that we're sort of pushed towards a goal
and we know the steps and we take them,
but there are things that we can't entirely account for
but are powerfully attractant.
And therefore, something like a final cause
is operating, some idea of what could be,
which is really just a potential
that we're sort of not able to specify exactly,
but we know there's something there in that area
and we're drawn towards realizing it.
That is a quite different idea
from being a goal directed being.
And it complicates the idea of what a cause is
because famously Aristotle had four kinds of causes
and two of them have been removed.
One is the formal cause and the other is the final cause,
the thing towards which whatever it was was designed.
And we've been left simply with
the pushing and shoving kind of causation.
And that seems to me, yes, that's what a machine is,
but an organism, you need to understand the whole
before you can understand the parts
and you need to understand the parts
before you can understand the whole.
And I know that's a paradox,
but I believe that when you get close to the truth
in these areas, the paradox is what you find.
To be able to say what a spleen is,
you first of all got to know what a mammal is
that has a spleen and then you can understand it.
So we're going all the time backwards and forwards
between the whole and its parts,
whereas the kind of thinking that is mechanical
goes in one direction from the bottom up.
I said, we can do this, that has a knock on on that
and produce it, that what I'm trying to say about that,
it is nothing wrong with it,
but it's just a kind of very, very limited way of thinking
about what we're dealing with,
which is useful for some purposes.
And because it's so useful in making us powerful,
that bit of us that just seeks power,
more money, greed, whatever it is is gratified by this
and can't let go of it.
And that may turn out to be dangerous,
not as I say, because machines may turn against us.
I mean, they might do I suppose,
but in a certain curious sense,
they're already doing so, if I may say so.
I have found my life, let me make a homely aside,
I found that my life has become vastly more difficult
over the last four or five years.
And one can say COVID and when this country,
one can say Brexit and so on,
but talking to people of all ages,
everyone is finding the same thing.
And it's to do with the fact that more and more and more
of everything we have to do in daily life
has become automated.
And I know that's a million miles away
from the really exciting imaginative sort of uses
of artificial intelligence that we're talking about.
But the fact is that all our lives are being deteriorated
in front of our eyes by this business,
that we no longer can get an intelligent answer
from a person.
Everything has been delegated to a machine
and the machine can't understand the context.
It can't understand any ramifications.
It can't understand anything that's implicit.
And that is actually having a tangible,
depressing, exhausting effect
on the entire population of the West.
I think it's one of the things
that is already playing into why we're sick.
So let me just put that on the table.
Yeah, I completely agree again.
Go ahead, Mike.
Well, so I definitely agree again with the first part.
So I think that story of drilling down to the parts
which we can do and we can see all the little cogs
and things that are inside of ourselves,
I mean, literally little cogs and things,
and say, well, look, you're nothing but a machine.
I mean, I agree that that is a very pernicious story.
And I think that there are other such stories
as we've talked with Richard many times
about the standard doggie dog view of evolution
and free will, the business are on free will.
And all of these I think are very pernicious stories
for the human kind of experience.
But I have kind of a weird, I won't say solution,
but I think the answer lies in sort of
the opposite direction.
So long-term, and I don't know, by the way,
that we will make it out of this.
I think we're in a local minimum.
I think things are trending downwards in these cases,
as you said.
But I think, and if we make it out of it,
I think the way to make it out is actually
to go in the opposite direction
and to really embrace this diverse intelligence field.
So what I see in a lot of discussions about this is,
people will say these things are just like us
and therefore all this good stuff,
or they're not at all like,
they're just like us and all this bad stuff.
I think we have to embrace the idea
that we are not the measure of all things
and that we have a tendency to look at everything.
And as you say, it's extremely dangerous.
Both of you have said this, I think it's very true.
It is extremely dangerous to misunderstand
your interaction partner in every interaction,
in the good ones, in the bad, in the adversarial ones.
If you have a fundamental misunderstanding
of what you are interacting with,
you are not going to do well.
That's just, but I think the answer to this
is to really get comfortable.
And I hope the people of the future,
and I think kids are not bad at this natively,
will have this intuitive understanding
that we can relate to many things
and many of them are just not like us at all.
And that's okay.
And we don't need to assume that they must be like us
because they speak like us.
That used to be true.
It used to be that the only thing that talks
were things that kind of like you,
but that's not going to be true in the future.
Your tea kettle will have opinions
about how much caffeine you should have
and things like this.
And everything in your life will talk,
but that doesn't mean that they are like us.
And I think if we truly embrace
the lessons of diverse intelligence,
we will figure out that there are many minds
and many of them fail in different ways than we do.
And we do too, we confabulate
and we make things up and whatever, fine.
But they will have different failure modes
and you just need to know much like we have
with our various animals and things.
And this will just scale that up.
So I think really, really biting down on this idea
that there will be things that mimic aspects
of our behavior but are just not like us at all.
I think in the end, we will come to grips with that
and then we will have more productive interactions
with each other, with them, with everything else.
I think this ability to only look at things
through our own, which of course it's natural,
kind of through our own lens is really hurting us here
and it's going to.
And exactly as you said,
not because they're going to do anything to us
because we are too myopic to realize
that not everything is exactly like us.
I noticed a bit of what I would feel
is a bit of a slippage in what you said.
In that you were looking for examples of intelligences
other than our own and you mentioned that ghastly kettle
that I shall put straight in the bin
if it speaks to me even once about my caffeine intake.
But, and so was that.
And then you did also mention
and you might not have wanted to conflate this in any way
