but you mentioned animals.
And one of the things I feel very strongly about
I'm not a terrifically a person
to pick up the fashion to the moment
but one word that I do think has become commoner
and is important is anthropocentric.
That our view that we are, I mean, we are very special.
No doubt about it.
And we have qualities and characteristics
that other animals don't.
But the idea that somehow there's any comparison
between a machine's ability to have
what I insist is not intelligence
which would require understanding
which would mean having feelings,
appreciating history, context, and having a body
and knowing it were going to die.
That is not the same as a more,
as we look at it limited intelligence of an animal
which comes out very rough on this
because if we prize particularly
with a kind of cognitive processing
to use the jargon that as it were a machine can do
and think that's what's special about humans.
Well, these animals can't do it to the same extent
but I'd like to say that there's an awful lot going on
in the minds of animals.
And the more, you will know about this more than I do Mike
but I mean, in researching over the last 30 years
the capacities for animals to understand things,
to think, to make calculations,
but also to feel things, to honor things,
to have rituals too.
I mean, they are truly intelligent beings
in the way that I don't think that the machine
however suave its overview of Wikipedia is
and suddenly coming up with 300 words
on what does Ian McGilchrist really about
in his latest book which somebody showed me the other day.
It wasn't a bad stab but I mean, it's not intelligence.
So I just wanted to just try and preserve a distinction there
because I think it's important
between different kinds of living intelligence
and I don't think you can then do a segue and go
but these machines are just rather like that.
I don't think they are rather like that.
Would that be aligned with a sentiment
that I have more in common with
and there's more shared values
and more appropriate compassion for a cockroach
than I would for chat GBT.
Is that the mind?
Yes, yes, there is.
I think that when you stress a cockroach
that's the same kind of stress
that I feel when I'm stressed.
It's cockroach stress, not human stress
but there's something shared and valued.
There's some shared value there
that there isn't between me and you.
I think that's right.
I mean, that's giving it a hard test
because cockroaches are not what most people want to
as it were and we can never get inside them
and know how stressed they are.
But I believe that yes, this is a continuum
with feelings that we have certainly in many animals.
There are, I think we ought to be awfully careful
about what we assume about animals,
what we do with animals
because we do have a responsibility again
that word that brings something about a relationship
that is a two-way relationship.
Yeah, so there's something about the cockroach
or the other living thing that might be limited
in its cognitive like cone compared to me.
But it's-
Enormously.
But, well, thank you.
But built to the same stuff.
And I don't really mean that it's organic.
I really mean that it has the same causal structures
at the deep levels like I do.
Whereas when I look at myself in a mirror,
I see something very like me.
I see something that appears
to have the same causal structures that I do.
And if I were to watch a video of myself,
then again, I would see something that's very like me
but not an obvious reflection of me.
It's a little bit delayed or lagged.
And AIs are able to make reflections of us
and not just reflections of one person, but of humankind.
Yes.
But there isn't another,
there isn't another,
and there isn't another,
oh, fuck it.
There isn't another soul in it, right?
There isn't other in it.
It's just a reflection of us.
And reflections of us might be useful,
but they're not.
But the cockroach really does have another thing in it.
It's a, it's also a reflection of me
because it's from the same tree of life.
But the depth of the folds involved
between me and my relationship with the cockroach
go much, much deeper than the depths of the folds involved
between me and an AI that's just a reflection
of you lay it deep.
Yes, and I'm reminded of another insect,
good old Drosophila,
and Barbara McKintock's revelation
that some kind of meaning is going on here,
that the whole organism is able to react
to parts of itself that it knows are not working,
repair them and do so in a way
that it may not ever have been prepared for
either by heredity or by its own experience.
So odd things like this
that we now know are going on all over the place.
These apparently intelligent decision-making
coming from the hole and going back to the part
seemed to me an important part of what we're talking about here
when we're talking about a living,
it's only a part of it, of course, about a living thing.
But what you, I mean, I'm very pleased
that you're not afraid to,
I'm going to have a campaign
to reintroduce the concept of the word soul,
the meaning of which I haven't any idea.
But I have lectured several times on its indispensability.
And if you've got a spare hour,
I can show you how there is no way
you can do without this word.
It won't be translated into emotion,
intelligence, cognition, whatever,
will or anything else.
But there's something there which is experiential
and that is the difference.
And it's not just a technical difference, that difference.
It's a vast difference,
which is why I'm slightly concerned about
the slippage I feel that can be made in this area
between a living being and a mechanism, a machine,
which is useful, of course,
but it's only useful if we're wise enough
to know how to use it and when not to use it
as with all tools.
And we've got amazing power to alter the world
without any noticeable recent increase in wisdom.
In fact, on my wisdom counter,
the thing is sort of sagging towards zero.
Yeah, that's very interesting.
I mean, the slippage, of course, to me,
the slippage is essential because as we look down
at the origin of life in the simpler forms,
I would like to think that the Paramecium has a soul
in our sort of parlance here,
but it's awfully close to the kinds of things
that molecular biologists are going to be able to make
using fairly machine-like interventions
and one can imagine replacing some parts of it.
And so I think that aspect of slippage is unavoidable.
However, and I completely agree with you
that today's, what we call AI today,
does not share the things that we're looking for here.
Okay, I don't think it has that.
However, I have a lot of trouble thinking
that evolution has a monopoly on creating things
that do matter.
I think that these beings that we talk about,
even though we don't have any purely artificial ones today
that match this description,
I find it very hard to believe
that only the process of evolution can create them.
And I think that if we knew...
Well, evolution didn't create those either.
Yes, that's a whole other thing, I agree with that too.
But I mean, but typically people, right?
When people say, look, this is an organism
and the machine is never going to whatever,
what they mean is it's some sort of natural product
of this tree of life and this.
I really can't believe that that is the only way
these things can ever come to be.
And I think that the shared...
So I also like what you guys said about having a shared
causal structure and things like that.
Here's what I think is essential to be shared.
I don't think it's to be on the same tree of life
because otherwise we can't relate to aliens and whatnot.
I think what needs to be shared is the existential struggle.
I think that what we want in common,
and you can sort of think about this,
somebody asked me this once,
if you were gonna go live on Mars or off in a cave somewhere,
what do you want with you?
Well, you don't want a Roomba with you,
