Yes.
And so when I heard that, my thought was that maybe I can play the devil's advocate and suggest that what the electric field was doing was not controlling or directing morphogenesis itself.
It was just causing enough cellular damage that the hydra...
No, no, sorry.
...reverted to the spherical ball and regrouped.
No, no, certainly, because I can go back and forth, certainly there's no damage because you get fully developed hydra, so there's no damage.
That's one thing.
The other thing is that I'll show you...
But it can regrow itself from shreds.
So why does the fact that it is regrowing itself mean that there's no damage?
It can regrow from a small damaged piece.
No, no, first of all, the tissue samples we work with are rather small, so there is no room to go much below.
I mean, if it destroys...
If I can go five times, of course, I'm not arguing that there is no cells that are destroyed in the process, certainly.
But that's not the point.
The point to make here is that this is normal regeneration.
This is normal regeneration, this is under a field.
Certainly, or this is under blocking gap junction, certainly there is an effect, but the process itself looks exactly the same.
And what I'm going to show you is that if I block gap junction and apply a field, I can recover the system immediately.
So because they work in opposite directions, and also I measure, I know that I put a field, I excite the system, the calcium.
When I put blocking gap junctions, I decay the calcium excitation, there is a decay in calcium excitation.
Then I can play with these two knobs to find a point where they just cancel each other.
I don't know.
So I'm not claiming that there is no partial damage, but as I'll argue in a moment, I think we understand why the field actually stops regeneration.
And why blocking gap junction stops regeneration, but I cannot tell you what happens at the level of the cells or the molecular level or all this, that's I don't know.
So it's a fair criticism, but one can do what one can do, that's what they can do.
It sounds good, thanks.
Okay.
So the model, let me just give you the essence, I'm not going to go into the physics.
So in physics, sometimes we call this an action.
So if you integrate over the calcium field, the exponent of this function defines a potential.
This is a morphological potential.
I want to elaborate a little bit on this concept, it's an important concept.
So what process has affected the morphology of the system?
Forget all the differentiation of cells, all the biology and everything, just let's concentrate on the shape of the tissue.
As a tissue, I'm not at the level of cells or anything, just the tissue itself.
So it contains three parts.
There is an elastic part, and for reasons that I don't have time to get,
mainly comes from changing the mean curvature of the tissue, which is kappa here, and kappa zero is the spontaneous curvature.
And the reason for that is that the major elastic process is like buckling process.
So the tissue, in order to minimize elastic stresses, it goes out of plane, if you want, it buckles.
And this comes, this is taken into account here as the mean curvature.
All the rest is not important, this is important because it's incompressible fluid inside,
so there is a constraint on the volume, which you have to take into account.
Then there is a calcium field, which is marked as phi here,
and this is just a fancy way to write this thing that I've shown you here.
And the reason to write it like that is because we want to connect it to the metric that measures the distances on the surface.
But the most important part is this part, it's the interaction part.
What is the interaction between the calcium field and the morphology?
So this is an hypothesis, it's a guess.
The minimal interaction is a direct interaction between the field, the calcium field, and the Gaussian curvature, the intrinsic curvature.
So again, I don't know the background.
There are two invariant curvatures for the surface, it's the mean curvature,
it's the mean curvature, which depends on the mean between the two principal curvatures of the system,
and the Gaussian curvature, which is the multiplication of the two principal.
And from the topology point of view, what is important is the intrinsic curvature, the intrinsic curvature changes when the system changes topology.
This is not so important, what is important is that this is a very significant type of assumption,
because first of all, it assumes some symmetry between the calcium field and the morphology.
So writing it in this way assumes that the calcium affect the morphology, but it also is affected by the morphology.
And it turns out that this is a very important ingredient.
So if the tissue changes curvature, it can excite the calcium field.
And also excitation of the calcium kilfer can change the curvature.
And the symbiotic dynamics between the local curvature and the calcium field is what stabilizes the system.
At any rate, you take these three components, you sum them, and you minimize the system, I'm not going to go into the technicalities, and you can compute this potential.
So this is a result of computation, it's not of assuming that these are the interactions in the system.
And what you get is a morphological potential, which is a double well potential that you see here, here on the right, with this minimum on the left.
So this coordinate here is the shape parameter, we have to take it square, I'm not going into details.
But this is the shape parameter, which in our case, we assume that it's a single coordinate.
This is also a severe assumption, because there could be all kinds of metastable states that require more dimension in morphology.
But suppose the simpler picture is one dimensional morphological coordinate.
This minimum reflects a spheroid, or a sphere like morphology, and this minimum reflects an ellipsoid that goes longer and longer towards the tube.
And what we discovered assuming this, there is a coupling constant here that couples the scalar field, the calcium scalar field, with the curvature, is that as this interaction becomes stronger and stronger, the second minimum becomes lower and lower.
And naturally in the Hydra, this interaction parameter naturally becomes stronger and stronger with time.
This drives regeneration.
So it takes the second minimum here, down, down, down, down, down, until it crosses this one, and then boom, the system makes a transition to a tube.
But the important thing to note here is that there is a barrier.
So the system cannot simply go over the barrier if there are not enough fluctuations in morphology.
It needs noise in order to overcome the barrier, otherwise it's locked around this minimum.
And this is exactly what happens for a very long time in this preparatory stage until it crosses.
I'll come back to it in a moment, but just to complete this picture, you take this potential, you write the dynamics to go from this minimum to this minimum, and this is the solution.
These are the black lines I showed you before that fit the experimental result.
This is the hyperbolic tangent that shows this transition, this sharp transition.
And it's very sharp because once this crosses fast enough, this minimum goes below this minimum fast enough, then the transition happens.
So this is an important concept of the morphological potential, and you can schematically think about it like that.
This is the situation where it's a spheroid.
This minimum is too high here, and there's no transition, then there is a bi-stable more or less situation, and then it goes down.
So ear fluctuations start to be important, and here it makes the transition.
Okay, how do you know that it makes any sense?
There are predictions from this model that we can measure.
So I'm not going to go into details, but we try to estimate the relation between the calcium excitations and the local curvature of the tissue,
and the end result without going into details is that indeed you find that in flat regions you have much more excitations than in curved regions.
This is a direct consequence of this type of coupling.
To minimize this, you would like to have negative correlations which we find between the calcium field and the curvature.
So the more curved regions are less excited, and the flat regions are very excited.
I'll tell you in a second why this leads to a change in morphology, but then there are other predictions.
For example, if we decay this field to become too low, then this integral is just an integral on the closed surface of the curvature,
and this is known in topology by a theorem that is called Gauss-Bonnet theorem, that it just gives a number, it's just constant.
On the other hand, if phi is uniform and you can take it out of the integral, it again tells you there is no change in curvature,
in morphology of the tissue, and this is exactly what we find here.
So you have an animal that is regenerated, it's a form of a long cylinder, you block gap junctions,
and the shape parameter, this is the shape parameter that defined before, goes down very sharply when you block gap junctions.
So to maintain the cylinder, you need the internal forces, you need the calcium excitations that are strong enough in the system.
It's not a passive thing that once it goes, it maintains itself, it needs the internal forces to keep the cylindrical shape,
if you shut them down, then you get more or less a sphere with it again.
Then at this stage, we apply a field again, an electric field, and it opens the system again.
So this demonstrates that we can, with two control parameters that are working one against the other,
we can find setting points where you can play with the morphology of the system by either exciting the system or blocking it separately.
If we could do it locally, then it would be much more fascinating even, because then we can really make eye-drawn demand,
we can change the morphology like a plastilina, you know, you can change it by applying these effects in a local way.
Let me summarize this and then show you, can I have another five or something minutes?
It's too late.
Five minutes is fine, we're going to have to break it at 130, but five minutes is fine.
Okay, so let me tell you the model, the model is a childish thing.
If we have high excitation at flat regions, more than in curved regions, then the reason it goes into a tube,
because it's a pressure system, it's like the balloon party story.
You operate the internal forces at flat regions, and then the pressure pushes the system into a tube,
like if you shut down the forces, then the pressure because it's isotropic, it takes the system back into a spheroid shape.
That's the essence of this.
Okay, so now in five minutes fluctuations, this is a high resolution, a high resolution trajectory of the order parameter,
of the shape parameter, sorry, so 48 hours, nothing, it's just fluctuates around zero,
and then close to the transition starts to fluctuate, and we are interested in these fluctuations to understand them.
So in order to study these fluctuations, so this occurs very fast.
We want to slow down this process in order to study the fluctuations.
So what we do, so the reason it goes fast is because the other minimum, the potential goes down very fast,
crossing the first minimum, and then the system just goes over the barrier.
So in this experiment, we use the electric field to slow down the process.
This is highly non-trivial because it's not clear that the electric field can affect this morphological potential or in any way,
or whatever way it will affect it.
And so what happens is that if I put high enough baseline for the electric field,
then I can slow down this change in the tilt of the WL potential,
and what you start to see for extended periods, fluctuation between sphere tubes, sphere tubes, sphere tubes, sphere tubes,
they become longer and longer because we didn't stop the potential.
By the field, I can stop the potential completely.
I didn't want to stop it here, I just wanted to slow it down,
and then you see the fluctuations and you can start studying them.
So the last part I want to show you, you have a high baseline to slow down the potential,
and the next step would be to start modulating it around this baseline.
So I'm not going to go into this story.
We first found that there is a time scale in the system, which is around 90 minutes.
It's a natural time scale, so we modulate the external electric field,
as a sinus over 90-minute period around the high baseline that slows down the potential.
The calcium field that you see down here is fully synchronized with the field.
This is the autocorrelation of the calcium field, it's synchronized perfectly with the field,
and this is what the morphology is doing.
So in orange you see calcium burst, and in black the shape parameter around them.
And the prediction from this, from a model that runs this,
that if you take a particle in a double well potential and you modulate the potential,
then if you don't modulate the potential, then the noise takes the particle to the right or to the left,
depending if it's strong enough to cross the barrier, to allow crossing the barrier.
But the statistics is just Poisson statistics, because it's a random process.
If you start to modulate the potential, even if you modulate it with a very weak effect,
you just change, you just perturb it in a periodic way,
in a very weak amplitude compared to the barrier, then you get a resonance.
Then you get a resonance between the random transition driven by the noise and the situation of the potential.
So you lock the system to the plane, and that's exactly what you see here.
So this allows us also to extract the noise level in the system,
and so the response as a function of the noise level as a maximum,
and the maximum is where the noise level is more or less around the size of the barrier itself.
So this is the situation, you modulate the potential, everything is around,
if you want high DC to slow down the process, you modulate the potential,
where it's more or less at this bistable state,
and you get this curve that allows us to extract the level of noise.
And what it shows is that the noise is very significant.
This is noise that drives the morphological fluctuations in the system.
Let me just summarize in one minute.
So an electric field can induce reversal of morphogenesis,
I showed you the universal cut spatial fluctuations,
we discussed the morphological potential and to cast morphological swings,
these are these swings that go back and forth between a spheroid and a tube.
So noise is important, and what is interesting and don't have time to discuss this in a deep way,
is that the noise level naturally is of the order of the barrier height.
If this would not be the case, morphogenesis would be impossible under these conditions,
and the natural time scale of the cartoon response is the same time scale,
if you want for the system to oscillate around the minimum of one,
one minimum of these double well potentials.
So this suggests a new mechanism for morphogenesis,
which I don't have time to discuss, but I think I gave you enough hints,
and again the theory is that the gum from Hebrew University,
there is a lot of technical help from these guys,
and we also on mechanics and polarity, collaborations,
Kinner et Karen are from physics.
