And of course, the other thing that people don't really look at is if you look at humans energy use, only about 20-25% of that is electricity and that's all the solar panels and wind turbines and hydroelectric and nuclear plants and even, you know, if they ever figure out fusion plants, that's all they make.
So, yeah, most of what we do can't even in principle be done.
Okay, you could say, okay, well, yeah, you could remake the entirety of civilization with long extension cords from mineral extraction to ships, everything like that and batteries and stuff.
So you quickly run into materials, shortfalls and really now time shortfalls.
You know, people look at complexity and the continuing availability of things like tritium and liquid helium stuff like that.
That's not going to be available.
It just won't be.
And regular fission, fission will work and fission plants can last, you know, 50-100 years potentially.
But you're never going to be able to make a fission plant from the other fission plants.
And like I say, even if you electrify the trains and stuff like that, okay, you're not going to be able to run everything on liquid cars because where's, you know, who's going to be mining the lithiums are going to be like a super long extension cord to the lithium mines.
There's a belief, I think, out there, ubiquitous belief that anything that works on a small scale ever can work on a large scale always.
And it's just not the case.
You know, there are things that work on the small scale like orbiting satellites that does not imply that you can orbit thousands of enormous solar power stations and beam power with microwaves down.
But again, trying to sell what's actually possible, both physically and thermodynamically possible and probabilistically possible in terms of what?
What sequences of events are, you know, in terms of what could actually fly in the world that we're in?
And, you know, being the bearer of that kind of tidings is something you're very familiar with.
So we could probably talk for 10 hours, Don, but on this reintroduction of you to the public, I wanted to have kind of one conversation and we're at the point where I ask the same questions to all my guests,
which I'll now ask you, what recommendations do you have for general listeners of this program who would like to influence the future for the better, but also prepare themselves, their families, their communities for the not too distant on the horizon, great simplification coming our way?
I think my general recommendation is to go find yourself a spot in nature and figure out what your sacred mission is.
What has deep meaning to you and obviously protecting your family does, but is there something beyond that?
You know, what would you like your existence to have accomplished, you know, at the point you're gone?
At that point, you need to stop listening to what people around you were saying and align yourself with reality, learn some of this stuff like you talk about.
You know, understand the science synthesis of how humans think how our evolutionary programming interacts with energy and ecological realities.
I say then try and adopt an ethic of what I call is like a life ethic.
It's what is sacred to you and I don't think don't shy away from that.
I mean, there should be sacred things to us and there should be things that we can define very simply as good or evil and ecological basis for a life ethic.
The life is better than the absence of life, you know, and conscious life that can talk across species is preferable to its lack.
It's a very basic postulates.
And then tie yourself to effectiveness, you know, not just status and the regular thing that you think that humans do, but figure out what it takes to be effective at whatever you decide to do.
You know, whether it's choosing a species and deciding to try and be its savior or saving some cultural thing for the problems that we're going through or a patch of woods near your house or something like that, you know, something larger than yourself.
And take that on and not just advocating for things, but to take personal responsibility for the final outcomes, which can be hard to do and it seems masochistic, but it's really the only standard that'll get her done.
Okay, and refining that advice down, and I know you have given this advice both in our materials and in person to some students.
What suggestions do you have for young humans, 15 to 25 years old, who learn about our climate, oceans, energy, economic, political situation, who have their entire lives ahead of them?
What advice do you have for young people?
Well, largely the same, except that one of the things I tell them is don't let anybody else guilt you into reproducing.
We got some fraught times coming up.
My wife and I decided not to reproduce other humans, a little redheaded humans running around with plenty of those.
What we decided was that at this point in time, the way to reproduce physically is an endangered species and threatened species, and we have done that.
We'll never meet them, but there's, you know, maybe potentially millions of dolphins and seals and seabirds and turtles and critters like that that are out there that wouldn't have been if we hadn't taken the path that we have.
And you're saying that any young person can choose to do that?
I think person of any age at least try to be a superhero, to try to have an effect on larger scale than themselves.
And indeed, just by existing in this society, we have a negative impact on the world, so you have to have an impact larger than yourself if you're not going to be part of the problem.
So I think being young now is a real challenge.
Of course, it's always a challenge, but we're entering Frodo and, you know, ring to Mordor times.
We literally are on the path to Mordor right now, and whether we walk that path back, that'll be determined on what happens in the coming 20 years or so.
A lot of things are going to be locked in in that period, and this is the most important few decades left.
Arguably, some of the decades in the past were even more important, but we didn't get it done then.
As I say, any rational appraisal will have to be that we, as a species, have failed so far for the other species, for our own species, for the distant future,
and for, you know, the total number of human childhoods there will ever be.
We can, to some extent, turn that around, and we're not trying yet.
I think it's good from time to time, reset your, what might call your hedonic baseload or whatever, the things that make you happy.
Like, we are all wealthy.
Everybody out there, including any of you listening, you may be on food stamps, we're all preposterously wealthy compared to the kings and queens of old.
We just are, but we tend to pay attention to relative wealth, the things that people around us have, but we don't need to do that.
We can live inexpensively and be grateful for the things we have, but we also don't have to envy people that have more.
You know, being able to see somebody who's got something that we don't have and be happy for them without trying to own that thing ourselves is, I think, a level of maturity to try and aspire to.
And it really will prepare you for the things that are coming.
It's like the phrase, collapse early and beat the rush.
If the things that you truly value are the things that aren't going away, then you're going to have a happier life.
So I expect I know what you'll say to this, but what do you care most about in the world, Don?
Well, I care about all of it, of course, but deep time, there's only been complex life on Earth, animals and plants for relatively short period.
The Earth is four and a half billion years old.
Of that time, we've had animals and plants between about four billion and four and a half billion, which is the now.
Animals and plants are not going to even be possible after about another half billion years.
One theory gets to be five billion years old.
It's just not going to work then.
So we've got that window to work in.
Why?
Oh, million, million reasons.
The planet's going to get hotter is the biggie.
The atmosphere gets stripped away.
The carbon dioxide and oxygen get too low.
Eventually, you get too little CO2 for photosynthesis.
Of course, the sun's getting hotter.
The oceans boil away, all of that stuff.
So you figure that there's about a billion years for complex life to exist, and that's half over.
Of that, the age, if we even call it an age, of conscious self-aware life is barely started, and it could end now with us.
We didn't start it either.
The whales and dolphins have had self-awareness long before we have had it, but we are in the process of ending them before we end ourselves.
So the entire self-awareness of the universe for itself is at stake.
The age of conscious life is hanging in the balance, and I care about that.
People talk about life in other worlds and stuff like that.
Well, the story of life on Earth has been bacterial from the get-go, from before the first billion years.
It was bacteria up until four billion years, and after five billion years, it'll be bacteria again.
There's probably bacteria all over the dang place in the universe, but there's special combination of things that happen here in a very special way to make critters whose DNA has accidentally created these virtual worlds that we all live within
and created a bunch of them at the same time, so I could have been friends with an alien mind.
You know, I've known an intelligent alien.
I mean, that's amazingly profound.
There are aliens with giant brains.
We know roughly where they are now, talking under the ice to each other, and we're focused on entirely other stuff.
Like, let's get excited about what we have and what we can still save and kind of infuse our culture if we can with the kind of enthusiasm that we see for billionaire shooting rockets to Mars.
And by the way, that's not going to happen either.
I mean, other than a few poor pitiful folks who die there, maybe, but we need some new compelling mythology.
We need to get off our butts, and we need to prepare to be kind of surfers, to surf the weird events that are coming up.
When the wheels come off, doesn't mean it's the end of everything that can be done, but it means we're going to have to be adaptable and, you know, use the skills that got us from, you know, the plains of Africa to where we are now and some near-extinction events,
some bottleneck events that happened.
And, you know, we've got a lot of bottlenecks coming up, certainly biological species bottlenecks, cultural bottlenecks, in the sense of narrow wings that could either close and end or could re-expand again.
And it's, like I say, these are Frodo times, except that Frodo had it easy.
So, of all the issues that we discussed, or maybe other ones that we haven't discussed, what single issue are you most worried about in the near term, in the next 10 years or so?
Well, of course, in the next 10 years, me having, it might be turning 72 this week, that will be about the remainder of my life, probably.
And I worried that I will live to see everything that I've ever done come to nothing.
The dolphins, turtles, seabirds, whales and stuff that I have temporarily managed to intervene and save, that I will see that they're doomed anyway by the fact that my species just won't stop business as usual.
That we are on a path to Mordor, and some of the very first casualties are going to be the case-elected species in the oceans, in, you know, 95, 98% of Earth's living habitat.
As the seas warm up, acidify, the currents slow, it stratifies, we get hydrogen sulfide bubbling up from methane bacteria in the bottom.
That won't play out in my lifetime, which is drawing shorter.
It won't play out in the lifetime of your students, but it is something that we will lock in during the lifetimes of people listening to this today.
And that's what I most worry about, that despite any temporary successes, that it will all come to nothing.
And that's a big worry.
In contrast, what gives you hope? What are you most hopeful about in the next decade or so?
Well, one of your friends and advisors who was also an earlier, would preceded me in the Vancouver Greenpeace Organization was Rex Weiler.
He's talking about a second ecology revolution.
We don't need an environmental revolution right now.
We don't need to be an environment.
I haven't called myself an environmentalist in a long time.
We need to have an ecology-based civilization that's energy literate and that, you know, with all its charts, don't stop at 2100.
Like the IPCC charts that, okay, well, this is what happens to 2100.
2100 has no significance.
You know, the things that are going to happen go out hundreds and hundreds a year, maybe thousands of years.
So yeah, young people.
But when we restart a second ecology movement, and it's not going to look much like activism looks now, and it's not going to look like being what an environmentalist is now.
A matter of, you know, adopting a new mythology that is actually anchored to truth, because there are great mythologies that are anchored to truth and the sacredness of existence.
And this wonderful existence we're in, that can be done.
It's like the early days of Greenpeace was crazy time, but it was also an inspiring time.
Because back then it was about people just balls to the wall going for it and creating new, not just new memes, but new drawers in people's mind for concepts that they never would have thought of before.
Like a human being willing to have his head blown up by harpoon to save an individual whale.
You know, symbolism like that is missing now.
The people who have worked on my campaigns in the past, you know, as opposed to burning out, I'll run into them 20, 30, 40 years later, and they'll say, you know, that thing that we did, that's the most important thing in my life.
That's the thing I wouldn't trade for anything else.
And even though I'm old now, if you ever ask again, you'll have me in a minute.
And that's the thing, doing these kind of interventions, even if you don't do it for life, but only do it for a few years.
If you do it and succeed, if you know you were part of that impossible thing, there's nothing like it.
And it's something that can be aspired to and it's, you don't always fail.
Even the impossible things you don't always fail at.
If you actually commit to it as a difficult thing and not as an easy thing, then a lot of things can be fixed.
Now, do I have the answer to our current predicament?
No, predicaments don't have easy answers.
We don't have problems now.
We have a predicament.
And it's how it is the existential predicament of our lives and really of large complex life on our planet.
And there will never be another, you know, you ask about good news.
Well, the good news is, is that if we get past all of these bottlenecks and the planet isn't totally screwed up yet, then any species that are still alive will never be able to get in this trouble again,
because there's never going to be another carbon pulse and thus never this level of mischief by any species.
Well, Don, thank you for your lifetime of work.
And over the years, I've learned a lot of stuff from you.
And thank you for spending your time today with this whirlwind overview of your thinking, your past, and your current projects.
Do you have any other closing thoughts for our listeners and viewers?
Too many of the thousands of people that may listen to this.
If there are two or three that are actually intrigued by this, drop me an email.
You know, I'm here and investing in individuals and communicating with individuals is an important part of this.
And if there's one person who's heard this, who decides that they want to have an outsize impact on something, then it will be well worth our time, I think, to do this today.
And of the people listening to this, you know, it's this stuff has predictive value and explanatory value.
And the myths don't, you know, neoclassical economics is this wacky series of rules of thumb that was created during a ridiculous period that will never be repeated during which we got free extra stuff every year.
And, you know, those rules are going to be obviously nonsense in the future.
Except humans are myth-making and myth-following creatures, so we may continue to follow myths and reject reality for a very long time as a culture.
Well, let's make some better myths.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification, please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit thegreatsimplification.com for more information on future releases.
