Not chance, not chance at that point.
No, no, no.
When she, when she got it right, I was supposed to push a button that made a reward siren.
You got it right.
And then she get the fish and she'd pair that.
If she got it wrong, you hit a buzzer.
There was a klaxon.
But you got it wrong and you get no fish.
So she'd make this pile of fish on the floor down there.
I was skulking behind this plywood thing, opening and revealing the things.
And once she had a big enough pile of fish, she'd start getting them all wrong.
Of course, you have to see just as well get them all wrong as to get them all right.
But she'd get them all wrong.
And then she'd pick up a fish and cock her rostrum back to throw it.
My observation was through like a five by five inch hole in the plywood,
which she wasn't supposed to be able to see because they didn't think golfers could see that well.
And it was dark in there.
So I'd be looking to see what she was doing.
And she'd push the wrong one.
And I'd hit the pups thing and she'd wing a fish through the hole and smack me in the forehead.
And so she ended up shaping my behavior.
She'd keep doing that smack.
And it was amazing how accurate she was.
I didn't, everyone didn't get me in the forehead, but most of them did.
Wack, whack, just, you know, herring against my forehead.
And after a while, she started shaping my behavior.
I got so tired of getting slapped in the face with herring that I would, I would wait.
Even though I wasn't supposed to wait in terms of pushing the klaxon buzzer.
And she would wait too.
It's like, she'd get it wrong.
And she'd go, I know you got to push the buzzer dude.
You know, and it, I'd wait for like 60 seconds.
And finally, so anyway, I'd walk out of there with a data sheet.
That showed she was virtually blind and covered with little silver scales on my complexion.
And then, then, then later, later on, of course, I'd, I'd go in with her and we'd swim for an hour.
And she'd sonar my skeleton and, you know,
What, what does that mean sonar your skeleton?
Well, you know, they, they see a dolphin's primary perceptual modality is sound.
And it's like we had a little flashlight in our heads.
They, they can, I mean, when they look at a human with a sonar, they're looking with something like, you know, it's like a, you know, X ray, like an enhanced ultrasound.
In other words, they can, they can see the contents of your stomach, the air spaces, everything like that.
And it's very interesting to be friends with a person who could see you in that way.
And it was pretty, it was just amazing.
And by the way, dolphin, she weighed 325 pounds.
She could have killed me at any time.
Any dolphin, any full-size violinist often could at any time kill anybody they're in the water with.
They don't, it's to their credit.
But it interesting, the whole process of getting to know and trust each other and stuff.
And over many months of spending time in, in with, with the dolphin, it was, it was intense.
And it was definitely one of the most meaningful experiences of my life that is with me still today and will be always.
Is this the same dolphin that you regularly did yoga with, listening to music?
Yeah, with this particular dolphin, you know, there was a lot of contact.
And you, you're sliding against each other and stuff like that.
And one of the things she liked to do is, is like would be on the surface and she would, she would do it, do a kind of a twist to balance my nose and her blowhole out of the water.
And then sing, you know, well, holding on to my hands with her pectoral fins and then just sort of swim to the center of the pool and just, yeah, sounds good.
Just sing a little song sort of things.
And with her eyes closed, I closed my suit and it was sort of a meditative thing.
So I don't know if that's dolphin yoga or whatever it is, but it was a thing.
It wasn't, it wasn't my creation either.
It was something that she created and decided to do.
And that's just one of a thousand different things that she would innovate to do.
I was just in there to be friends and she would say, okay, well, you know, we've got nothing to do.
Here's all of these games.
There's all these things that we could do.
And I will note that this particular dolphin was kept in solitary confinement, had not been in with another dolphin in many years.
Are dolphins social creatures?
They're incredibly social.
And I say that as a human introvert.
But dolphins are incredibly social.
It is not right to keep dolphins away from other dolphins in solitary, but this particular one was in solitary.
And although I wanted to know her as well, I also felt a bit of an obligation because of this, you know, social deprivation that she was.
So I'm sure I was a very poor substitute for other dolphins, but I didn't have control over that situation.
And I tried to be as good a friend as I could.
And not just for her, but also while doing that, realizing, okay, this gift that I've been given, there's no way I'm ever going to be able to pay this back.
But one thing I can do is save a bunch of other dolphins that I'll never meet.
And I have.
And I hope to continue doing that.
And it's such a small payback for such a wonderful thing to have lived.
That's beautiful.
And I've never experienced anything like that other than what I happen upon a moose in nature.
And the moose looks at me and we look at each other.
And then my relationship with dogs, of course.
And I've had some beautiful nature moments, but not to that extent.
But my other feeling in hearing your story is our culture currently thinks of dolphins as big fish or that they do tricks at SeaWorld and things like that.
And we miss the emotional deep sacred connection organism to organism interspecies relationship that you're talking about.
And I mean, maybe that's why we became friends 15 years ago, because we both recognize how precious that is.
So what do you know, I assume you know, what is the current status of dolphins in the world?
And when you say that they're in peril, can you explain what you mean by that?
Well, the peril is not exactly the same as it was.
Some of the things that you mentioned in the intro, like dolphin friendly tuna and getting the huge drift net fleets out of the oceans and various other things like stopping the trade of dolphin meat as well meat and stuff like that.
A bunch of the things that I was able to do, you know, when playing around in human mischief space, as I call it, because they didn't need to be done.
Those things are not happening to the same degree, although dolphins are certainly under assault from the myriad of things that most of you know, sound pollution, plastics pollution, entanglement, everything else.
But really, since about, well right before the time I ran into you, you know, I transitioned from doing these interventions in large ongoing kills and stuff, partially because they weren't ongoing anymore.
But to figuring out, okay, what are the what are the existential problems for humans? Because I like humans just fine. I have a lot of humans who are friends, as you know.
And, you know, what are the big issues? And the big issue for dolphins and whales and indeed any creature in the oceans with a skeleton now is the big thing that we're worried about CO2 because of, you know, people worry about climate carnage.
Which is a real thing and will happen. But really, ocean heating and stratification and acidification, those present really doom, unfortunately, unless something changes to a lot of the really large, slow reproducing critters in the sea.
I'm not talking just dolphins and whales, but you know, seals, tuna, fish, other stuff like that. The things that are wiped out by rapid ecological change are the ones that are big with a low reproductive capacity.
So that's why in, you know, you see things like, you know, the KT extinction dinosaurs, the paleocene is the internal maximum. You end up going down to small, rapidly reproducing simple species.
And I'm sorry, but dolphins and whales are not going to make the cut. Now humans are in that same basket, you know, we're going to add not going to have air conditioners, you know, either, even though people think we will.
But unfortunately, whereas humans are very adaptable and, you know, can probably get away with surviving and reduce numbers well into the future.
There are some hard thresholds in the oceans, like the threshold of, you know, calcite and aragonite crystallization, you know, how acidic can things be?
I mean, a child who's born today is now generally expected to outlive coral in the oceans. How messed up is that? And what is something like 30, 40% of all ocean species that spends some part of their life cycle in coral reefs?
And beyond that, there's a bunch of, you know, critters in the plankton and even, you know, things in vertebrates who require calcium for their skeletons.
If you knock that many pieces out of the food webs, then the things that are guaranteed going to be knocked out are the case selected critters that take a long time to mature at very low reproductive rates.
We're talking about dolphins and whales, and what we need to do to save them is the same stuff we need to do to save us, but we need to do it quicker.
And yeah, I know we're not doing it at all now in effect, but, you know, that's the deal. It's not just us. The only thing that's just us is we can make a difference, potentially.
You know, we can decide. An individual can decide they want to save a million dolphins and potentially go out and do it, or they can decide that they want to advocate for...
I mean, we've got the largest brains that we know of in the universe. Not we have them. We, the Earth, has the largest brains known of in the universe talking to each other right now under the ice in the Arctic Circle, the ice that we're melting.
What are they saying to each other? They've had self-awareness and advanced cognitions and huge brains long before we did.
And here we are looking for fossil bacteria on other planets while turning these enormous communicative brains effectively into dog food just because, you know, we convert them into money.
We can financialize them. And unfortunately for critters with a slow reproductive rate, it can actually make financial sense to wipe them out, bank the money, rather than waiting for them to reproduce more.
I mean, that's been kind of the economics of extinction for the whales in the past. And yeah, I've been involved in the whole wailing thing, too.
We were talking about dolphins, but I ended up getting a lot into whale stuff as well. And if you want to ever do talks about the whale stuff, I would love to see you.
Humans talk to whales, and in principle, that could happen. You introduced me to A. Zareffin, who is saying about doing that.
I've told some of your other students going back many years that that's one of the things that I'd like to see happen. And it's interesting.
My approach to doing that is actually quite different than his. So maybe there'll be some cross-pitalization, but there are amazing things that can be done on the planet.
They're just not the amazing things that people think they want. And the amazing things that people think they want are also, incidentally, not possible. So there's that.
We're going to get into that. Sticking with dolphins and cetaceans, I have a side question and then kind of a profound and potentially depressing question.
The side question is one of the videos that you called to my attention, but I showed to my students every year, was a young dolphin who had come afoul of some fishing line and was all tangled and couldn't swim.
And it approached some humans, defenseless. Can you describe the importance of that and what happened briefly?
I think it's important that to other people, it's just a cute YouTube clip like kittens in a box or something like that.
There should be a hundred scientific papers written just on that one video.
We had a wild dolphin, looked to be a young female, approached scuba divers underwater because there was a hook cut in her and submit herself to what basically was knife surgery to cut the hook out of her while she held her breath.
Now, I know people generally figure that, well, dolphins, you know, if they were smart, why don't they build airplanes?
You know, why don't they build oceans? Why aren't they wiping us out in their fisheries?
And it's like, this dolphin, you imagine, what does your IQ have to be? 300?
In order to, there were no escaped dolphins. This wasn't a trained dolphin and popular wisdom has it that dolphins can't talk to each other.
Okay, if she hadn't heard this from another dolphin, how did she come to the deduction that she could swim up to these foreign creatures with metal tanks on their back blowing bubbles at night while holding a single breath, submit herself to them while they got knives out and cut into her flesh?
And just, you need more than a theory of mind for that. You need to have confidence in your deduction that these critters have a theory of mind that they will probably be motivated to help, that they can help.
And then you have to have the absolute presence of thought to let these, you know, alien creatures, an alien in the sense of, you know, no common ancestor in 80 million years or so, cut into your flesh.
And then, okay, see you later. I mean, not that IQ is even a useful concept really between species, not really even between humans, but how smart did this dolphin have to be?
What human would make a series of correct deductions? You know, she nailed it first shot, swam right up to them, submitted herself and see, but this has been out there on YouTube.
As far as I can tell, other people saying, oh, that's really cute. Dolphins are smart. It's like, why aren't there a bunch of papers on what's the minimum number of cognitive benchmarks that have to be clicked off in order for this to have occurred?
And so you and I co-wrote these books. Some of the concepts I made this movie, The Great Simplification earlier this year, you were not involved in the writing of the script, yet you are in the script credits because some of the concepts were things that you coined in our writing.
And maybe it makes sense to get into a couple of these meta concepts that are foreign to most humans, but central to our worldview. Maybe we start with The Biggie, which probably we could have named the book this, The Carbon Pulse.
Can you unpack that? What it is, what it means to you, why it's important?
Well, it's important to me and you and everybody listening because it's the biggest wrench, the biggest monkey wrench that has ever been thrown at humans. It's slow in rolling out, but it may be the equivalent of the chips of asteroids smacking down the dinosaurs.
I refer to it as The Carbon Pulse. I originally coined that in our things because it's so brief. We're just talking about two, three hundred years in time when time goes millions and billions of years in other directions.
It's this aberrant period in which we've got essentially free energy by using the oxygen in the atmosphere and stuff we can dig up and burn. And we're messing everything up in so many ways. And I don't know that we need to belabor that here a whole lot because it's sort of conventional wisdom now that we're messing up the atmosphere and stuff like that.
But I think what people don't necessarily get, and we lay a lot of this at the door of mythology like neoclassical economics, is that the main currency of life, of human life anyway, is cleverness, that the universe has been constructed in such a way that there will be cheese at the end of every maze.
That our main resource is cleverness. We're obviously clever and we're not going to run out of cleverness. There are four Star Trek teachers.
Well, that's one of those crazy blind spot things that just sticks out to a person who thinks visually because it's just not right. Just being clever doesn't really get you anything. And that's the case of humans with what I don't call fossil fuels.
It's fossil carbon, fossil hydrocarbons. They're only retroactively fossil fuels if you burned them and that's a dumbass thing to do with them. We've only got so much. And to the extent we should burn them at all, we should probably burn them before an ice age and not like to create a reenactment of the thermal maxima of the past.
Why do you think that we could have avoided the carbon pulse or with human trajectory since the agricultural revolution 10,000 years ago was finding and scaling fossil carbon and hydrocarbons inevitable?
Well, certainly from the point of view generally of a species like us arising from some other planet or you certainly you could you could pause it in earth in which coal was not sequestered that there were microorganisms that would break down the lignin stuff like that.
Or the geologically there was an oil sequestered. So that's just sort of a cosmic coincidence, a big trap that was set for some creature with the brains and thumbs and a fetish for supernormal stimulus.
And sexual selection.
You know, yeah, we can go into read our book folks, but but our books plural. But I don't think it was inevitable to answer the question on this planet. I think it was clearly likely, you know, you know, that access to it was so ubiquitous, but even not all cultures would have necessarily done it the same way.
And it didn't have to spool out the way it did exactly. You know, there are a lot of cultural things that have accelerated our burning of stuff. And even now, although a lot of people think, Well, we're either doomed or everything's going to be fine.
No, it's not the case. There's enormous degrees of freedom still in what can happen. And people have a hard time in taking that on board to realize, Okay, that there's an enormous amount of stuff that could be saved, but not everything.
Well, I mean, people talk about collapse. And I think one of our mutual friends recently said when people talk about collapse, they mean when is collapse coming for me, because collapse is already happening to many species on Earth.
It's happening to the country of Madagascar and Syria and Ukraine and perhaps Bangladesh and others. So the future is already here. It's not evenly distributed.
And one of the things you just mentioned, which further defines the carbon pulse in that it will never happen again, because the carbon was sequestered and maintained before the evolution of termites on this planet, which is something
that Tal, aka you wrote in our in our book, that if we get through this period, fossil fuels are unlikely to ever get stored up in Earth's hydrocarbon battery again, because when they first did the termites and lignan eating bacteria
didn't exist. So they were stored and heated and geologic pressure to turn into burnable substances later. Do you want to add anything to that?
No, I think it's true. I mean, people even look at that as good news if they want to. Most people are not really thinking in the way that that would be good news. But no, the carbon pulse is a one off deal.
And not only for humans, but for any other species that might try and arise, they're never going to have a hydrocarbon, you know, intensive civilization, or for that matter, probably copper or anything else we're using up.
You know, everything that's, you know, we've been burning these fossil carbon and hydrocarbon compounds. And at the same time, using up all of the geologically sequestered concentrations of damn near everything else useful.
So no, future civilizations or, or, or, you know, self aware folks on Earth. One thing that we can know is they're not going to be industrial, they're not going to be probably building skyscrapers are certainly not going to be orbiting satellites.
You know, it's a one off deal. And it's good that it's a one off deal because we're really screwing things up. And I say that as a person who is I'm really totally into science. And I always have been I've been to the space program.
I think that's just really cool. I feel commonality of feelings with people who look into space with awe. And, you know, I've known a lot of people that I met our dolphin research lab was being primarily funded by Arthur C. Clark.
That community, I think, really needs to refocus on possible futures.
So there's, there's a difference between science and technology. And the technology community now is largely energy blind. So can you explain, and we do this in our books, and I've done this in my podcast, but I'd like to hear it from you.
Why we couldn't have industrial civilization without fossil carbon and hydrocarbons in the future? Can't we replace that with other technology that isn't pulling ancient sunlight from the ground?
We could accomplish some very cool things. Now, people here don't know it, but you do. My house is festooned with solar panels, but that's not because I think that the solar panels are going to, you know, get it, get it done.
And in fact, renewable energy is just a phrase. It's one of those thinking and words things that I talk about. There's no such thing as renewable energy.
And, you know, the solar panels and things themselves aren't really renewable either anymore than a pickup truck is. There are things you could rebuild again. But the more windmills and solar panels are the stuff we make, the more the CO2 goes up because we're burning more stuff at the same time.
And of course, most of the power we use on the order of 80% is stuff we're just burning. These things so-called renewables make electricity, and that's cool, and that's neat. But that's what, 20-25% max of the current civilization we have.
Now, could a civilization hypothetically be built that was entirely electrified? Yeah, probably could, but it wouldn't be this one. So, yeah, there are probably very cool paths that could be taken, but they're not going to have the kind of material, you know, wealth overage in terms of physical wealth that we see now.
Because that's, you know, even back at the envelope, you could tell that's not going to happen. And nobody is probably going to be able to make a solar panel. If you put somebody on an island and said, OK, here's a pile of sand, make a solar panel, you're not going to be able to do that.
I frankly don't even know, I'm sure it's never happened, but I don't know if it ever will happen that the solar panel is ever made with anything other than burnables. You know, I don't think we'd probably have solar panels or nuclear power if wood had been the only burnable that we used.
Our civilization would look a lot different, and arguably would have been a lot better. I don't know if you'd like me to go down that road, but I think by about the year 1800, if we just kept burning wood and doing other stuff, I think we very well might have gotten to easily to the trillionth human childhood on Earth.
Whereas, I think now that is a real long shot. And to me, that underscores, it's not just about whales and dolphins, it's about the things we risk losing are most of the human lives that haven't been lived yet because we're actively precluding them.
There are other books in the news, what we owe the future, McCaskill and Nick Bostrom's existential risk, which are talking about a trillion humans could live in outer space in the future, but they have the same ethical bottom line that you are, but in reading them or actually reading reviews of them,
it seems incredibly energy blind because it assumes that we are kind of inevitably headed for the stars. They never mentioned coal, oil and natural gas as being the fundamental driver of industrial civilization.
And the assumption is that even after we use less hydrocarbons either voluntarily or because they deplete that AI and other technology will replace the need for hydrocarbons and that we are destined for the stars. Can you talk about that a bit?
It's just not possible. I mean, it seemed then back in the day when we were putting people on the moon real fast and everything, oh yeah, maybe this would be possible. And who knows? Maybe if a large part of the Earth's fossils had been put into that, it might not have been impossible.
But in retrospect, it was probably impossible, even that. But there is a place for trillions of humans. And all it requires is that we don't break the planet. If you look back, like I said, say you're 1800, and if you don't say we never got significantly and there wasn't much oil to burn, we never burned much coal, we just burned wood,
Well, then the human population probably wouldn't have ever gotten much above about a billion and we would have wiped out some things and everything. But we wouldn't have wrecked the atmosphere, we wouldn't have acidified the oceans. Most of the critters in the world would be fine just because they were, you know, sailboats can only get to so many places, you know,
wood fire boats, you know, most things that were screwing up would have been energetically remote. And in that case, there's nothing, I mean, the average mammalian species lasts about a million years, the average large mammalian species lasts about 10 million years. We are way beyond that in that we are distributed all over the whole planet right now.
So what should we expect? A million years? 10 million years? More? If that's the case, and if we were to average just a half a billion people, you know, living in, you know, sort of 1800s horse and buggy stuff, we would get to the trillions of childs, you know, without it, if an asteroid didn't hit us or something, we'd get easily. We hit the two trillions of childs. We, you know, might get to five trillion children.
But as it is right now, there have been a total of maybe 100 billion humans that have ever existed in history since Homo sapiens started. How many will there be? Why would an intelligent species not primarily care about what the total deep time footprint of that species will be? I don't get it.
Because the species is intelligent, not wise, and there's a difference. What if our culture broadly understood your experience with dolphins, that they are self aware, they have personalities, they have senses of humor, they can communicate all of it? Would it matter? And I'm afraid to know the answer to that.
I would like to think that it would matter. But how many people think beyond this weekend, let alone care about a trillion humans in some distant era or epoch? I think most people are, and it's not their fault, it's our education system and our culture and everything else. But what are your thoughts there?
Well, how many people even now care about them? There's the human phenomenon. It's easy to have empathy for an individual, but humans just don't have empathy for large numbers. Yeah, what if everybody thought dolphins were people? Well, people, you know, humans knew that Native Americans were people and they still gave them smallpox blankets, unfortunately.
Not everybody did, but you know, we're all reaping the benefits of that, quote unquote. Has it been that long since, even in the United States, that people of a different color could be imported and used as slaves? Unfortunately, it's not aggregate human nature to care about stuff that's outside their own tribe.
Having said that, I think that expecting humans en masse to change in a major way is not going to happen anyway. I think the way change happens is by small groups of folks getting together and individuals having ideas and pressing those.
I set up a bunch of seemingly impossible things to do, and did I get them all done? No, but I got like 80% of them done, and I'm not, oh, I'm not finished trying yet. It's, I think, not just the way we perceive the world needs fiction, it has blind spots, but even once we decide it needs fixed, the way we think about that has blind spots too.
And you've long advocated that individuals in small groups are where the action is, and I think cultural anthropologist Margaret Mead had some famous quote that individuals in small groups are the only thing that will change the future because they're the only thing that ever had.
Can you explain why you think that is the case and why you're an advocate of that?
Well, there is no consciousness in en masse people. You get a million people say, okay, they're conscious in some sense. Well, yeah, they sort of solve problems in some sense, but they're not conscious. It's not an overmind or anything like that.
It's akin to an amoeba. At this point, it's an amoeba that's after energy and raw materials to service the dopamine and other reward needs of its individual constituents, but there is no understanding going on there.
Whereas individual brains, that's where thoughts happen, and small groups can work together productively. I don't know how far you want me to go on this. It was interesting to me to go from running the global programs of Greenpeace, which was a fairly rich, very well-known organization with all kind of contacts,
and then switching and working on the exact same issues with a very small organization, which frankly I ran as an executive just saying, okay, I think this can be done.
I generally say, well, I'll give it a try, but there's no way this can happen. But it was enormously more effective. The little group with no money, but that was not following the game plan of trying to be an international megacorporation,
but just trying to be effective, was actually able to solve all of these quasi-impossible things that the big group wasn't. And I mean, in both cases, I was the person in charge, and the same brain was at work.
But just by freeing up the sort of strategies and innovation and reaction time and stuff like that, a bunch of things that had actually been impossible to do as Greenpeace became possible to do with a very small and unknown organization.
I actually think that we have not really even yet begun to tap what small groups of extremely motivated people might be able to do. Somebody wants to make a difference now. They ask, okay, what can I do?
It's like, oh, we'll sign this petition or put solar panels on this house, or let's cause universities to divest. So they have better carbon, the hedge funds on the oil stocks, and it's like, no, those are not things that are going to work.
Those are things that affect how you feel. You know, things that actually reach effective, specific goals in specific ways in defined time scales. That's what effectiveness is. And you can do that.
