Anybody can do it. An individual. You don't need to join a group. You can individually decide what is sacred to you. What's your personal mission? And frankly, I think everybody should have a sacred mission.
And you don't need to tell anybody else what it is. Just, you know, figure out, go sit alone by yourself. Figure out, if I was to have a sacred mission, what would it be? And maybe it's to follow somebody else.
Or maybe it's to champion a single other species that nobody else cares about. Or maybe it's to save some part of human culture or just to be nice. But it's like, you know, I think this universe doesn't hand out meaning.
The physical universe doesn't have meaning. It's this electrochemistry going on inside our brains where the meaning and the color and the love and everything like that live. And people need to focus on that. What is there?
And don't just figure out you need to join something. You know, there, I think it's very easy for illusory movements to start where people, there's a very low buy-in. It's like, okay, yeah, send five books and you're part of this movement and, you know, protest here, come to this protest, maybe get arrested.
And, well, what does that actually do? And in my experience, it doesn't do very damn much. And I can say that as a guy who's, you know, is, by the way, I was not a founder of Greenpeace per se. That's only Canada. But I, you know, I founded a bunch of Greenpeace things.
Greenpeace Foundation, Greenpeace USA, Greenpeace International. I did the activist thing for quite a while. And my heart goes out to the people who are motivated like that. But just going out and being seen to be striving mightily against the high odds, that doesn't cut it. You know, it's got to be results oriented.
It can't just be a lifestyle. It has to be, what did your existence on this earth accomplish? What's the end result? And since we all are causing an impact just by existing in this society, that pretty much dictates that if you want your, you know, your net impact to be positive, you're going to need to try and accomplish something a lot larger than the scale in which you live.
What about all the tens of billions of dollars? I don't know the exact number, but it's huge dedicated towards environmental protection and climate change and large organizations. And yet we see CO2 and environmental damage just accelerate every year.
Is this what you're talking about? That the joining these movements gets you a paycheck and some social cred and perhaps gets you laid once in a while, but doesn't actually have results?
I'm not trying to cast that aspirations. I have great admirations for a lot of folks like this, but really wake up and smell the coffee people are various, you know, movements and stuff are failing. Look at the keeling curve. It's going on. I mean, we we're failing, you know, full stop. We need to try something else.
I suppose the good news that I might have is that we haven't tried everything. It feels like we've tried everything. There's certainly a lot of disparate young people who will go out and join protests and stuff and then figure, well, I didn't accomplish anything. So nothing can be done.
I don't think that's right. I think we're just not approaching it the same way. And it's like, yeah, you can have large movements of people who are convinced that the big problem and the only problem is that there are sociopaths in charge of fossil fuel companies.
But no, that's that's not it. We're all demanding those. And the problem with an illusory movement like that is that that epistemological scaffolding is not going to hold up in terms of what we've got coming in coming decades.
It's going to crumble down and you're going to have a lot of these same people demanding coal.
It's not even it's not even holding up right now in Germany and the East Coast of the US and other places. Energy security is trumping CO2 reduction as a policy. But you and I expect that to get much more intense as the decades unfold.
Indeed. And it will. It can't not get more intense. It's a finite, amazing material, oil in particular. And, you know, basically the last nation with oil winds and some seem to understand that better than others now.
It's not cleverness via economics. It's, you know, in a very real sense, it's not even just coal. It's mostly oil. And that's why, you know, most of the big wars recently back World War Two, even World War One were mostly about energy.
And in fact, even wildlife, coral reefs and stuff like that. Most of the conflicts are about energy. It's like the nature of life, you know, energy is what moves things. And, you know, oil has been this extravaganza and it's it's finite.
I don't actually expect that the, you know, the proletariat's going to be able to jump on a jet to Disneyland or whatever they have 100 years, you know, rather than Starship rides to orbit, stuff like that.
I think, you know, airliners for the masses are going to be just an urban legend. It's like, what if you've got a bunch of reindeer reproducing on an island and there's only a finite amount of food?
It's really the exact same energetic case.
But the reindeer didn't have technology.
So it took them longer to die.
Okay. So this is something that you and I always struggle with where we try to understand and explain energy and technology to people that largely have a technology lens.
Because when you describe the carbon pulse and that we have this giant short-term couple centuries bonans of fossil carbon and hydrocarbons that's going to deplete, the natural response from people listening is like, okay, well then we'll use solar panels and renewables and nuclear and things that aren't fossil in nature.
So how do you see the relationship between energy and technology and why can't humans replace all this fossil hydrocarbons with technology after fossil fuels deplete?
Technology, as we've come to know it, is really ways of using excess exosomatic energy.
And we've had huge amounts of it for the last couple of hundred years and have used more every year.
And that is the magic behind technology.
That's how you make the little gizmos.
That's what the gizmos act using.
So excess energy and materials, which you make technology with, are exactly what is going away.
We're going to very soon crest the all-time peak in excess exosomatic energy.
And we've actually used up most of the geological concentrations of minerals and everything.
So everything is getting more energetically remote.
At the same time, the total amount of energy that we have to use to do things to get that and make it into gizmos is declining.
What did you mean by energetically remote?
It's a concept that I think would be great if it was taught by second grade.
It's like energy moves matter or can move matter.
It's the only thing that really can move matter.
And we move things around in all kinds of ways.
And that's making things worthwhile.
But think of like a copper mine.
Back when I was a kid, you could dig a hole and come up with big ingots of solid copper.
And it took hardly any energy at all.
Now those are all gone.
There's big huge yawning open pit mines in their mining ore that's got just tiny fractional percentages of copper.
This comes about from using the best stuff first, which is logical.
Who doesn't want to use the best stuff first?
But using the best stuff first, the stuff that's least energetically remote, that you can just pick it up and use it pretty much,
using the best stuff first means that the stuff you have left gets progressively worse.
And that's the case with everything that we want to do with energy and technology.
And it's been amazing.
I mean, in my lifetime, I would imagine something like 80% of the exosomatic energy of the whole human race has been expended.
And we're going to crest the peak soon, and then there will be less every year, year on year, for a couple of centuries.
And the way we think about technology now, we're like sort of fish swimming in an energy soup.
It's so ubiquitous, we don't question what it would be like without free exosomatic energy.
But it's the thing that technology revolves around.
So it'll be going away.
I mean, it'll still exist in books.
We'll know how to do stuff.
But you're not going to be able to fly a jet from New York to Florida in 100 years.
You just won't.
So we have not recognized this truism because every year we've had access to more energy.
And we can think about, we can envision having less energy.
Actually, there are a few years that we've had less energy.
Those would be recessions and depressions.
But we're expecting that to be ongoing in coming decades throughout the coming century.
There will be less energy available to humans every year instead of the last century where we had more energy available.
Can't technology cushion that blow?
Couldn't we be using hopefully no coal but remaining natural gas and oil towards targeted ways of creating seed corn technology of solar panels and other things that in tandem could provide energy to meet basic human needs on the down slope?
In other words, a combination of technology and fossil energy and materials.
Absolutely.
There are any number of better paths and worse paths.
Now, even the best paths are not going to match up to the Star Trek futures or the things that the neoclassical economics propose because they're just nuts.
But yeah, there's a huge range.
I mean, you see in my house, it's festooned with solar panels.
You know, I love them.
I think they're a very cool deal.
But I look at them as what they are.
I have grid tide.
I have an off-grid system.
And it's interesting.
It's fun.
And, you know, there's all sorts of alternate things that can be done.
But as I think I mentioned before, we can't power this civilization that we now have that way.
We can come up with, you might want to call it, we can land this big civilizational species jumbo jet that's running out of fuel.
We can steer it to a nice cornfield to bring it in for a landing where everybody gets off.
Or we can just ignore stuff, keep flying over the mountains and assume the tanks will magically refill themselves.
And, you know, so there's a metaphor for you.
And at this point, we're doing the latter.
So what if we did land in the cornfield?
What sort of lifestyle would we expect that's more or less sustainable sometime deep in the future?
Well, for one thing, just to get it out of the way, it's not going to have 8 to 10 to 20 billion humans at once.
There is a place for billions of humans and trillions of humans, and that's the deep future.
That's, you know, and at this point, they may not end up even being able to be there because we're breaking things.
But there is a sustainable level of people that can live for a long time as long as we don't break the planet.
And those people, even if they're, you know, energetically poorer and don't have as much material wealth,
their life quality could well be better than the life quality that we all have now.
Now, they're not going to have air conditioners and stuff like that.
But they can be, you know, surfers and poets and farmers and have some level of smart technology
that's based on what you can actually make out of what you got and doesn't require, you know, globe girdling, supply chains.
Yeah, there's all kinds of good stuff that can be done and to some extent will be, but you can't break the planet.
You know, you can't break the oceans.
You can't, you know, if you melt all the glaciers, you screw up the monsoons, you pump out all of the aquifers and do all the stuff that we're doing,
which could go out for hours and discuss that, you're going to break it.
You know, we're time blind as well as energy blind.
So extrapolating that in the other direction, there is a large, I don't know if large is the right word.
There's a reasonable size movement called the NTE, the near term extinction movement that thinks the planet is already broken
and that we are in runaway Venus sort of climate change that are not only going to cause humans to eventually go extinct,
but that we will go extinct in the next decade or so.
And it's surprising to me how many people subscribe to that.
What do you think about that?
Well, those guys are not, they're destructively nuts.
I mean, they present an attractor that's equivalent to the attractor of, well, there's nothing wrong because they resolve the dissonance.
If you adopt the feeling that, well, there's nothing we can do.
It's too late.
Go live a life of excellence.
Go, you know, smoke weed, play your banjo, and it's all over, but the shouting, let's just all blog while we watch the world die.
That's horrible.
That's terrible.
And it's wrong.
I remember the head of one of these things was on Jay Hansen's list some years in the past.
And at the time, and this was over 10 years ago, he said, oh, it's within five years, there's going to be hot enough in my suburban neighborhood to denature proteins.
So why not live for the day?
Well, this is 10 years later and what?
I'm not sure what neighborhood he lived in, but I doubt it's more than a tiny fraction of a hundredth of a degree different.
I think the problem is when people focus super much and particularly in the Internet is focused super much on a certain problem.
It acquires a counterfactual immediacy in their brains.
And it's like, oh, well, since this all looks bad and we don't know how to fix it, it must be going to happen soon.
No, it's not going to happen that soon.
The glaciers aren't all going to melt, you know, but that's no reason not to save the planet.
A lot of the Earth system effects that are already locked in are not going to play out for 500 years.
That doesn't give us an excuse to not deal with them.
It means that we need to expand our now, what we're responsible for, for the things that we're locking in in the next decade or two that will be irrevocable in coming hundreds of years,
such as messing up the seas and screwing up the tropics and killing off the whales and dolphins and yada yada.
Yeah, as you can imagine, I agree with you.
When I reach, when I talk to someone who said, well, we're going to go extinct in 10 years because of the positive feedbacks of climate change are certain and near term.
I don't entirely disagree with them if they would say in the next hundred years and there's a chance that this will result in human extinction.
I wouldn't disagree, but the fact that they're certain and that it's near term and that there's nothing we can do about it kind of gets my blood pressure up.
So what about the general state of climate activism?
The reason I ask this is you care about climate and oceans and dolphins more than anything else to my knowledge.
And yet you disagree with the general thrust of the current climate movement.
Can you expand on that a little?
This is my first interview in like 20 years.
I started out creating organizations and experimenting by intervening in human systems and in world systems.
And, you know, I've only started talking about what I've learned in recent years since I didn't think anybody would ever be interested in listening.
Now there are a few apparently.
But yeah, the standard activism, which I did, you know, as a, you know, founder of a lot of Greenpeace campaigns and entities, you know, I live the activist life, but it's very, very incomplete.
It has a lot of built-in attractors to mediocrity and ineffectiveness.
And that's not to take anything away from people who, you know, want to glue themselves to the wall and after throwing soup on a painting, but it's not a real plan.
You know, you need to actually figure out what's going to be effective.
And in the real world, that's a stepwise plan where somebody takes personal responsibility on all the steps of the plan.
Otherwise, you just got a bunch of people milling around like a kicked ant hill.
And, you know, I love the fact that there are millions of people that have signed petitions and stuff.
But, you know, what kind of a movement really is it if the fundamental thing that ties everybody together is the myth that the transition is going to be easy
if we just get the sociopaths away from running the fossil energy companies?
No, that's not right. I've actually worked in fossil energy.
I was an oil geophysicist for a short time back in the day.
And, you know, people are just people, humans are just humans.
The problem is not that the people running Exxon may be sociopaths, although that certainly may be true for many given time.
It's that we demand, including the people that signed these petitions, we demand there to be gasoline.
We demand there to be, you know, if we get the notion to cook 10 turkeys in our oven at midnight,
we demand that we put that switch and it's going to be there all the time, unlimited base load.
You know, we're blaming the pushers.
And, you know, it doesn't matter.
You could put Mother Teresa equivalents at the head of the oil companies.
And I guarantee you that the people out there with the, you know, the green bumper stickers now,
at the point those people said, well, going to shut down the oil, we're not going to have it anymore.
At the point that people couldn't fill their cars or charge their cars,
their houses got cold in the winter and hot in the summer, they would demand,
oh, hey, we need to, on an emergency base, we need basis, we need to start these again.
Which is, you're describing a scenario, but I actually think you're kind of describing the next 10 or 15 years.
Well, the next 10 or 15 years, certainly 20 at the outside is when the wheels are going to start coming off
our financial house of cards.
And the financial house of cards is in turn, I kind of think of it as like a half-assed load-following algorithm
for all the mischief that humans like to do.
And we'll probably explain, I mean, you've spoken certainly far more, far better on this,
as in you have a Wall Street background, but we'll probably experience this initially as financial,
fiscal problems, you know, recessions, depressions, and then further on, you know, bank failures
and nationalizations of things and rationing and, you know, money, you know, re-monitization of some kind,
who knows what a dollar will be in 20 years.
But this stuff is all coming up because we are really kind of at the inflection point of all-time net energy.
This carbon pulse we talked about, okay, the pulse, you know, it's like a sort of a sine wave pulse,
and we're at the peak of it now.
And it's not even a coincidence that we're near the peak of it because exponential growth finds the limits really fast.
We're at exponential growth in about every aspect of what we're doing.
So it's no coincidence that we would live during the period at which things peak and start getting worse
because we committed to exponential growth and everything.
And I think you think what's in five to 15 years, like I said, 20 at the outside, it's not 50 years.
50 years from now, we're not going to recognize things.
And yet, everybody from philanthropists to activists, everybody kind of more or less, you know,
figured that things are going to be like they have been and they won't be.
What should we be doing as activists or philanthropists or at least thinking about?
Oh, man, there's probably no short answer to that, but align with reality.
How about, look, let's use the metaphor of NASA launching a craft to land on Mars or go ramming the asteroid or something.
If NASA based the planning of its missions on the level of mythology and luck and social feedbacks that we use on everything else and memes,
not a single one of their missions would ever succeed.
They would go up in the pad or they'd go, you know, stewed or they, you know, it wouldn't work unless you have tight tethers to biophysical and ecological reality.
