You're listening to The Great Simplification with Nate Hagins. That's me.
On this show, we try to explore and simplify what's happening with energy, the economy,
the environment, and our society. Together with scientists, experts, and leaders,
this show is about understanding the bird's-eye view of how everything fits together,
where we go from here, and what we can do about it as a society and as individuals.
I would like to introduce my longtime friend and colleague, DJ White.
DJ is probably not a household name. He was a co-founder of Greenpeace International
and started EarthTrust.org 40 years ago.
The first few minutes of this podcast, I talk about a long list of environmental activist
accomplishments, especially in the oceans that DJ is responsible for and thankful for.
DJ is an interesting character. I met him as a commenter on the oil drum.
15 years ago, we became friends. He co-wrote the three textbooks for my reality 101 class.
What I find so fascinating about DJ is he thinks differently than most people.
He was responsible for the tall, which stands for through an alien lens in our books,
because he does think in an alien way. He connects things that wouldn't normally be connected
and integrates all the different topics of our current situation.
He's a very colorful, though shy human being, and I think you will enjoy this first conversation
with my friend, DJ White.
DJ White, great to see you, my friend.
Hey there, Nate. Good to see you. Yeah, we're finally doing this.
So, you and I have not talked much the last couple years, but I hazard to guess, without sounding hubristic,
that I know you and your thinking better than most humans, with the possible exception of your wife,
given our thousands of emails and conversations and you co-writing the three books for my reality 101 class with me.
So, I am honored to be able to take a deep dive into your history and your brain and your hopes and plans for the future.
Well, cool. And yeah, you're probably right about that. You and I have spent a lot of time talking and collaborating,
and it's all good. I've enjoyed your podcasts and stuff. We'll see if I can continue to uphold your quality standards.
Well, this is a little awkward for me, because knowing you, I know that you're not someone to just grab the mic
and brag about what you've done and say why people should listen to your ecologically literate world view and systems ecology perspective.
So, I don't really know where to start. I have like 50 questions written down that I want to ask you,
but maybe I could just give an arc of what I know about your past and then start from there,
because I doubt that you would say it yourself. So, here's what I understand, and then I'm going to ask you some questions.
So, your name is known in environmental circles, but really is not a household name.
And let me just speak for a few minutes and please correct me if I get anything wrong when I stop.
You grew up in Indiana. You went to college. You were a geophysicist. You kind of had an epiphany and you left it cold.
You started your own environmental group in Hawaii to confront the whalers on the high seas almost 50 years ago.
Oh, yeah.
Wasn't it? 76?
Oh, yeah. No, I was just roof-rufully flashing on what 50 years is.
Yeah.
Well, 45 years.
Continue. Yeah, well, it's rounding it off to the nearest half-hundred, but continue.
Yeah, and so that effort was joined by the National Greenpeace Movement,
and together you guys bought the first fully-owned campaign ship and confronted Soviet whalers,
and you and I have talked about how you, at that time, went to Pillbox,
a little Japanese concrete structure on the hills of Oahu,
actually thinking about, would you be willing to die for a whale?
And we'll get into that.
You subsequently wore many hats in the Greenpeace Movement.
You co-founded Greenpeace International.
You created and ran the International Dolphin Campaign,
along with many of its signature policies and interventions.
You also conducted citation intelligence research starting around the same time.
A story I tell to my students and is in our materials.
You formed a personal bond with a dolphin that you got to know very well,
which you've told me has influenced the course of your life deeply,
and the promises that you made yourself to her.
On the side, you've co-founded many independent groups such as Species Survival Network
for CITES and Earth Trust that you still run now.
You've been referred to as the patron saint of the Global Driftnet Campaign,
shutting down the world's largest destructive fishing fleet in the 80s,
saving millions of dolphins' whales and many other species from the invisible mesh
of those deep-sea drift nets.
You also personally created the first international labeling regime
for dolphin-friendly tuna, and we can maybe get into that later.
You convinced the world's largest tuna firm to legally bind itself for years
to your organization's criteria for dolphin-friendly products.
You and your wife, Susie, set up entire practice of illegal whaling globally
by creating an undercover network through your direction at Earth Trust.
Your teams oversaw the bursting of illegal trade of many endangered species globally.
You've also successfully stopped an ongoing national drive kill of dolphins,
which still is being discussed and shown in the movie The Cove,
although no one's ever heard of your efforts, which were successful.
All this was focused on wildlife, but as we wrote about in our book,
The bottlenecks of the 21st Century, about 30 years ago,
you sent your ecologist Earth Trust teams to Kuwait,
where they managed to break through blockades and show the world
the hydrocarbon pollution hell that was unfolding,
shutting down gushing oil while avoiding landmines
and leveraging the leadership of Kuwait to open the shutting out of those oil fires
to international firms and perhaps shutting in 2 billion barrels of oil.
The estimates would vary.
Other things could be said.
The first thing I would say is, as someone who cares about other species like you do,
which is probably why we came together 15 years ago,
I thank you for your lifetime of work on behalf of other species
who don't have a voice in our economic system.
Let me just start here, Don.
Why did you do all these things and what puts you in a position to be able to affect them?
It all comes right down to it.
If you only get one life, you want to spend it well.
As a child, 50, as a boomer kid, you take the jobs you could get
and so I went through college and ended up as an oil geophysicist of all things
looking for oil in the field, which is an interesting parallel to some of your backstory
of being an oil expert.
My heart was never really in it.
It was actually an epiphany to me having lived so cheaply to get through college and stuff
that when I started being paid for doing the oil exploration,
I don't have to spend this all on myself.
I can keep living cheaply and spend this on other species.
For a period of time while I was doing that, I was spending at least half of my paycheck
on bigger and bigger donations to people who were doing things for other species
as sort of establishing that dual identity.
Then I did have what you might call an epiphany, a beautiful Louisiana salt marsh
and just decided I was going to quit the next day, go off and save whales and dolphins.
I had at that point never met a male whale or dolphin,
but it seemed like something that needed doing and something that I felt about.
It seemed like it would have meaning to me and it did and it does.
I mean, that still has meaning to me and I'm really glad that I took that path.
Each of us gets a chance for multiple paths and I've never been sorry about that
and I've recommended that sort of path to some of your former top students who I've gotten to know.
So, in your early 20s when you had your first job,
you at that point were already carving out part of your income to allocate towards species protection?
Yeah, that would have been 22 years old in 1973.
By the way, I still think that if you don't have to go out to the boonies and start a soybean farm,
a person who works for Exxon gets a good salary and puts half of that into effective programs,
might actually be having more of a positive effect than if they just live the change they want to see on some low-key level.
I think that's an option for people. I wish more people would think of doing that.
For me, I decided after a while it just felt so personal and I felt like I could do stuff with my crazed motivation,
if nothing else, that I figured I would do that and I set about doing that.
So, my understanding is you had this epiphany, you got a one-way ticket to Hawaii
because you knew there were no dolphins in Indiana and then what happened?
Everything else. As you might imagine, there were no ready opportunities to get to know dolphins really anywhere in the world
and with a degree in geology, geophysics, it's like, oh, hey, how can you get into that?
So, actually, I ended up scraping the shit off dolphin tanks. Let's cut right to that.
I found there was a university that was doing research and that was the entry point I found.
They found that putting bleach in the water would give the dolphin's eyeball capacities, which is gross,
so instead they let the algae and stuff grow in the dolphin poop and they'd have to scrub it out every week
and nobody wanted to do that. So, I offered myself free labor and there was a lot of slipping and falling
algae and poop and stuff like that, but it got me into it.
I was a bright guy and so, gradually, they started realizing that there at the University of Hawaii
that my expertise, such as it was, was good enough that instead of just cleaning dolphin tanks,
I could actually be helping conduct the research with the dolphins and do their little computer-y things
and I actually was grounded in science and stuff, so I sort of, you know, by scraping the tanks, I got into that.
But as you've also alluded, it also led to me getting to know one particular dolphin fairly very well,
which is something that not many people ever, it's a shame and not many people ever will get a chance to do.
And it's not a shame that, in the sense that a little bitty, horrible tank is no place for a dolphin to be,
but I had been very interested all the way back in college with speculations about the nature of intelligence, you know, of being.
What does it mean to be a conscious being in this universe?
And the notion that maybe humans weren't the only ones was fascinating to me.
And so, I read this book by the name of John C. Lilly, who I recommend and who I got to know later in life, actually.
But he had written speculations about, you know, well, dolphins have got brains larger than ours and they're social and they communicate.
And, you know, why were we to just assume that they are necessarily these inferior beings?
Just because they're alien and different to us.
And I was fascinated by that, but I didn't really necessarily buy it or believe it.
And so one of the things I wanted to do is, for myself, sort of the confirm or deny the hypothesis that these were people.
And not just like, I mean, I agree, dogs are people and, you know, I've all kinds of non-human friends.
But are these people in the same sense we refer to other humans that is an abstract self-awareness of themselves and a sense of humor?
And are most of the self-aware, conscious beings on Earth, are most of those species non-human?
Because that's what it would, you know, add up to being.
And I came to the conclusion that, yeah, that is the case.
The dolphins that I interacted with, in particular this one dolphin, we're as, there are as much people as any person I've ever met.
And I don't take away from horses and dogs or any of that kind of bond.
But I'm talking in terms of just not being able to predict what they're going to do, the feeling of another mind in there.
And it was important to me because it may be obvious to anybody listening to this, but I'm probably a bit on the spectrum, as they say these days.
I don't think in words.
I've heard that most people tend to have sort of a running monologue of words, and that ain't me.
I think in pictures.
I've had to learn some words, you know, they're coming in handy now.
But, you know, when I started out, I was, you know, as a little kid, I was pretty much, you know, a screaming headbanger and, you know, that stuff is still in there.
So my wondering about, okay, what does it mean to be a person and who are the and stuff like that?
It was a lot of this stuff just gobsmacked me.
It's like, holy moly, there are these, not only do these aliens exist, but we're in the middle of a holocaust.
They're being wiped out, you know, kind of on my watch.
And, oh man, it's like, so all of a sudden, I had, you know, this relatively rare knowledge base that I had in these realizations that I felt I had.
And it was in the context of these friendly aliens, these intellectual critics with a sense of humor, being wiped out, potentially in my lifetime.
And man, there's motivation for you.
It's like, how can a person believing that not try and put 110% of their lives into making that better?
And that is what I decided to do.
And it's, you know, in a way, it was, that was an easy call for me.
I mean, there were things like nuclear war that I wanted to not happen.
There were things like environmental devastation, but being up close and personal and to know individuals of species that were very probably going to be wiped out, you know, it was not just a vague, you know, large existential thing.
It was like, hey, hardly anybody but me knows this stuff and nothing much is being done about it.
So in our book, you did write some small anecdotes about your relationship with this dolphin.
And you just mentioned that this species, this alien species, dolphins, not really alien endemic to planet Earth, just alien from a current cultural perspective, had a sense of humor.
Can you tell us some stories or shed light on how you came to learn that?
Well, of course, it's a bit subjective as is everything as you get past, you know, abandoning solipsism, you know, it's like, I think you have a sense of humor and stuff like that.
And it's, how do I quantify that with you either?
And it's, it's a feeling that you get, of course, it's subjective, but there are a million clues when you're closely interacting and tactically interacting too.
I mean, a lot of the time I spent actually in the water in the tank with the dolphins of them doing the, with the dolphin doing the sonar on me, communicating back and forth.
And it was, it was a very amazing kind of a kind of a deal.
But one example, I suppose, would be one of the pieces of research that I was doing back when I was doing it, not in my lab, but back for University of Hawaii, was they were doing visual acuity experiments on a dolphin.
And the setup was very crude by modern standards, but it had two targets.
And if the dolphin made the correct visual choice as to the one it was supposed to choose, showing it had good vision, it would push the paddle associated with that one.
And then the person running the trial, which in that case was me, would be hidden from dolphins.
In theory, the dolphin didn't know that the, you know, anybody was back there.
Just you throw, you throw a herring over the end edge of the pond and then the pool and the dolphin would get it and operate conditioner type thing.
You know, the, you know, stimulus response reward kind of a thing.
Problem is, the dolphin clearly knew that I was in there.
She just see the people go in there and she knew that I was running the experiment.
And she also knew that she was going to get fed the same amount of total food to the ounce, whether, no matter how she did experiments.
So she just had fun with it.
And she'd do all kind of different games.
And dolphins in general, I find, they'll flip the game on you.
But in this case, and I had no flexibility.
There was a specific protocol I had to follow because it was not my research.
I would just run it, run in the things.
And so she'd get them all right for a while.
But instead of eating the fish, she'd put them in the tank was only five feet deep.
She'd build a pile of herring on the bottom.
And then she'd start getting them 100% wrong.
