None of the stuff you do is going to be the right answer.
And it's unfortunate. I think it's a shame. There's a lot of well-meaning people.
But if 200 years from now you were to ask whoever's there, what percentage of the philanthropic grants and productive stuff?
What percentage of that in the last couple of centuries was wasted?
You know, at this point, it would have to be well. All of it. It was all wasted.
At this point, we don't have solar panels that last 200 years, which those guys would probably appreciate.
We have solar panels that last 15 years, maybe 20.
Why is that? Because our myths about the way things are going to keep going mean that the net present value of these things are such that
why wouldn't we replace them and throw them away in 20 years?
Because they'll be better than and maybe cheaper.
And so we make stuff that's not meant to last very long.
And meanwhile, our bridges are failing. There's not going to be asphalt to maintain the roads.
We've torn up the nice, efficient old railways that used to connect all of the cities in the United States.
You know, in favor, we think we're going to use Elon Musk's electric trucks or something.
So, you know, that ain't happening. And anyway.
So how much of this is because philanthropists or the general public or activists truly don't understand reality as you're describing?
And how much of it is that voicing the things that you're saying would go counter to the consensus trance
and cause social status risk of people in good salary positions in the environmental field, for example?
Well, it's both.
Reality, particularly the reality once you've worked yourself into a predicament as humanity has on this planet is like the perfect storm for denial.
I've been talking about this stuff we're talking about now.
I figure my my career has been since mid 70s, and I've actually been in meetings and network philanthropists and stuff like that.
And oh, my word, I did not get invited back when I started talking about stuff like this, which was frankly ahead of its time back then.
Not only was there like crickets after after I would talk, but you know that that network would never invite me back.
And even, you know, and still, you know, there's there's not like people lining up say, Hey, DJ, you know, all of the all of these impossible things that you did, maybe it'd be good to do some more impossible things now.
And yeah, there are definitely dynamics that, you know, there are attractors within the human sphere of events.
And there are repulsors and the stuff I have to say is full of repulsors.
And let's say I spent a bunch I thought I was going to die doing activism, you know, that and that's still a part of me.
But it became apparent when I didn't burn out like most of the other folks just kept doing this stuff decade after decade, that a lot of the fundamental concepts of how to get things done.
Don't worry, activism is incomplete at best, social activism, and it's full of attractors, as I say, to mediocrity.
And that's why there you could there's almost like an ecological progression of starting a new organization and how the original people get stuff done and then are gradually replaced.
And you end up with a group full of administrators, you know, with budgets and 401ks that are just part of the background business as usual.
You know, you see that cycle again and again.
The good news for me is that we haven't really tried being effective yet.
It seems like to a lot of people, a lot of the young people I've talked to, that well, what can we possibly do?
We've tried everything.
No, we haven't.
We haven't started even trying stuff.
But it's, you know, the kind of discussion that we do and the way activism is largely done now, it's all cerebral.
It doesn't make those deep brainstem connections where you really get human motivation and creativity and you're working against a time limit.
And you force yourself to find the answer to situations that are obviously intractively impossible.
And you keep doing that.
And what you find is that some of the impossible things aren't impossible, but it's a grind.
You told me that 12, 15 years ago and I nodded my head and I'm not an activist.
I'm a teacher, but I feel the burnout and the constant trying to do things against the societal narrative, you know, 15 years later.
So I kind of feel what you're saying, but not fully.
So you have had, as I mentioned in the intro, lots of environmental interventions that were successful.
And why don't you pick one of those and unpack it or share with us some of the common threads that made you effective, you and your organization effective on those things.
Is there some underlying logic or strategy that applies to all of your prior successes?
Wow, that covers a lot.
I wouldn't say that there's one underlying strategy other than holding myself accountable for large scale outcomes.
In other words, I don't hand anything off to anybody in terms of responsibility and that's a horrible thing to put on yourself.
And yet I don't think I just succeeded at anything unless I had represented to a bunch of other people that I was going to lead them to do this impossible stuff.
And, you know, the stuff did seem impossible and it should have been impossible, but I wasn't bullshitting when I pulled the people together and said, we're going to do this.
It was a life commitment and one that I took seriously.
Okay, I'll give one example, because I think it raises another point that things that seem intractable, a lot of these campaigns are pretty much all of the things we look at now seem intractable.
But there can be deep simplicities and you don't necessarily learn how to work with those until you've been doing this for quite some time and it failed a bunch and have figured out why you failed and why others have failed.
So I'll briefly compare two campaigns that seem utterly different, permanently stopping the dolphin drive kill in Taiwan and stopping the oil well fires in Kuwait after Saddam Hussein set them on fire.
And both of those campaigns, which succeeded in a very short time, were based upon getting to the issue first, securing the documentary evidence of an appalling thing that was going on, and then converting that to a victory without making the perpetrators seem evil.
In other words, there is, I can guarantee that you have never seen, one of my old friends has never seen the horrible footage of dolphins and whales being killed in Taiwan.
It's like nobody has seen the horrible footage of little children in a petrochemical hell under noontime dark in Kuwait, coughing black goo into the street.
That's footage. It's right over here. I've got it. I've seen it. It lives within me in this sort of existential malaise that I keep going.
But the point is we were able to leverage that stuff instead of making our organization popular and getting a bunch of grants by demonizing folks, we went directly to the folks who had the ability to shut it down permanently, and we did.
We went to the executive yuan of Taiwan, did a screening for them and say, help us write the end to this story. And it wasn't just that it eventually happened.
We managed to get a kill stopped while half of the dolphins and whales were still in the nets, and the law was changed in Taiwan permanently to the point that within three weeks, we had some of the senators from the executive yuan in Earth Trust wetsuits
helping us release the remains of the very dolphins that were being killed with boats and flags and stuff like that in the Buddhist community coming out with banners.
And then we ceded the local area with teachers talking about dolphins and stuff for the students for the next few years.
And that remains the only dolphin drive kill that's ever been stopped, national drive kill.
So the Kuwait oil campaign was basically the same thing. We were the first ones in there. We got our teams in while the Skud missiles were still falling.
Well, in theory, there was no way to get into Kuwait and all of the global media was bottled up in Bahrain.
We just simply infiltrated it and got our people in there to do the same thing.
We got footage of this horrible stuff going on and managed to screen it before the Al-Sabaaz, the Kuwait royal family, and say, hey, you guys, because at that point, they had said that, well, no, these oil fires, they can only be shut out by U.S. and British firms.
There weren't even any British firms that snuffed oil fires. There were only two in the U.S. that did it.
So it was projected that this oil was going to gush into the sea and these flames were going to go on for years and years and years.
And that's just the way it was. And we did this and say, look, we've got this footage. We're going to put this out, but you have a chance to help us write the end of this story.
Open this up to international teams. And so in other words, it's the same campaign. And so we managed to do that.
Now, we not only didn't make any grants on that, because who's going to grant something that you do that fast, but I actually lost my life savings and retirement income by backstopping the Kuwait campaign.
That was hundreds of thousands of dollars I never saw again because the Kuwait royal family, after agreeing to reimburse it, didn't.
So, hey, Kuwait royal family.
If you're listening.
Yeah, if you're listening.
I didn't expect you to tell these stories. The Kuwait story you wrote about in our first book, but I don't think you've ever said the Taiwan drive kill story publicly.
So thank you for doing that. And thank you for sharing.
And I wonder in listening to this is part of the reason that you and your and Earth Trust were successful is because you cared more about the outcome and not about the social accolades of telling people the victory.
This is some 30 years later that you're finally acknowledging these things and you never got recognition ever for these things in the intervening years.
Is that some anti-current social activism dynamic that is important?
Well, who in the world strategizes about how to help the quote unquote bad guys win?
I tell you, I mean, just count them off on your finger now. Who is right now trying to help the bad guys win?
And it's not a common dynamic. And yet it's often the best.
I mean, the dolphin friendly issue, I inserted myself inside the tuna industry, the people who were responsible for literal Holocaust adoption.
I mean, like 7 million dolphins.
These are people who I really hated on the level that, you know, a Jewish person would hate the Nazi SS.
And yet I became in a sense a tuna executive because I had to find a path that aligned their interests with what the dolphins needed.
And I did that. And, you know, your soul dies a little bit when you do things like that, but it's not about me.
You know, and that's the first thing I tell students.
It's like it's not about you. It's about what the effect is going to be.
And so I ended up binding Sarkis, the world's largest tuna firm, to a via contract law to the standards by this little Hawaii incorporated organization for eight years.
They had to follow our product acquisitions.
And that's what made the entire dolphin safe thing work.
And it was in the background and it was by helping these guys find a way that they could look good.
And I mean, that solution space is it's not even even looked at.
And what it means also is you don't have that great hatred gridlock that builds support bases and mailing lists and notoriety.
But you can come up with things that seem impossible and we could we could go hours and hours on things that were impossible on their face and turned out not to be.
And I think that's salient because we're facing so many potentially impossible things now that need out of the box thinking and people are projecting out of the box thinking.
So, so let's go there extrapolating from your past successes.
What are some of your current projects or ideas for projects to intervene towards better human planetary dolphin ocean futures?
There are a number of things that I would like to see done and it will do.
I think we need a mythological framework for this.
It's not just a matter of people blogging and correcting each other and stuff like that.
We need I think there needs to be built the kind of excitement that you get around the space community, you know, the Elon Musk groupies and the folks like that.
And I mean, I'm very connected to the space people and stuff like that.
I think that that's very cool when I grew up liking that.
But I think we need to craft some better mythology.
I would like I would like to set up machines to talk to great whales.
Well, they still exist.
I know that's something is a basket and one of your friends is talking about doing but his approach and my approach are utterly different.
You may recall that I back I've built machines for dolphins to use computers and for dolphins to talk to computers and for and to construct hybrid languages, not not just in the abstract.
But I mean, have have done it for 15 years ran a lab where dolphins could use a computer to help control their environment if they wanted to no food reward, no training.
It was like, OK, what do you guys want to do with this toy?
And, you know, it turns out getting back to my theme of dolphins being like people, you know, how long it takes a dolphin to learn to use a computer about as long as it takes a human longer than it took my parents.
You set it up for them.
They use it and immediately they figure out what it can do now.
They don't have thumbs.
But for instance, I was able to come up with an idea and have a place build it.
The initial thing I do you've heard John McAfee that that that's sort of a mafic.
Well, yeah, I'm sure a lot of people have the bulletins on their screen that their McAfee is expiring.
Well, McAfee actually has expired at this point.
But early on he helped me create a voice recognition board so dolphins could use phonations to interact with computers.
And then half the dolphins didn't want to do that.
So I also created a touchscreen with interruptible little lasers that they could interrupt with their us rooms.
And so we ended up with a flexible interface to where they could actually do things.
They could talk to dolphins and other tanks that they couldn't see otherwise.
We could actually observe them thinking and acting as dolphins.
It's fascinating to do.
Obviously, it's more challenging to do this with great whales free living and talking under the ice with brains, you know, three or four times the size of ours.
But there they are.
Here we are in the universe and here they are with not much time left due to things that we're doing.
I'd love to see that happen in my lifetime.
Why did that stop 30 years ago with all the things that McAfee helped you create with the dolphin computer interface?
I haven't heard anything about that other than the couple of times you mentioned it to me.
Well, he had figured that when McAfee was involved, or McAfee, that was back in the early days of IBM PCs.
Computers, it's got hugely more powerful.
And so the boards that he created became quickly outdated.
And then we end up using Macs.
And actually, the Macs we got were like Steve Wozniak's personal Macs and stuff like that.
But we never got funding from Apple, but we were on their web page and stuff like that.
And whenever Steve Wozniak was tired of one of his computers that they'd pop that one over to us and stuff like that.
So it was interesting and there were things to do.
And there are things that could have really changed the culture about that too, because it was made for the dolphins.
We came within a heartbeat of being able to have Japanese students playing video games against dolphins in real time over the internet.
It was set up. They were doing the dolphins. We're good at the games.
You know, it would have been a nice cultural end run.
But when you're doing impossible things and some of the necessary things rest on others, sometimes they don't happen.
And in this case, the Marine Life Park worried that one of their dolphins was going to die on camera or something like that.
And then they pulled the plug on it.
But you got to try stuff like that.
And for all of the successes that you could list, you could probably also have an equal number of things that I tried that seemed impossible.
They turned out not to be impossible, but basically didn't work or didn't work exactly the way I would have wanted them to.
And that's it too, you know.
Trying and failing while doing this stuff, I think, is what qualifies you to try and then succeed more of the time.
And how many people are there who have been doing nonstop, you know, conservation intervention since the mid-70s?
Not many.
So, given the carbon pulse, given the energy blindness, given the state of climate activism and other activism, what should the head of an environmental, pro-future, pro-social foundation be thinking about?
Are the priorities out of whack?
What are some paths forward that could be both effective and keep them employed and respected in the status quo?
I mean, what are some of these super important projects for the next two, three, four decades?
Well, it's a good question, and there are a lot of answers to it.
But the big thing is, take off your neoclassical economics blinders and realize, smell the coffee about the actual reality that we're heading into.
There are any number of things that we're going into, like human giga-famon.
I know nobody else talks about that because I had to make that word up.
We're going to see the upslope of the carbon pulse corresponded to what's known as the Green Revolution.
Norman Borlaug is looking at a human population going up like a huskake sick as well.
What's not generally appreciated is that there will be a corresponding downslope.
The human population will, slash, must follow the energy curve back down again, and that's going to correspond to a lower human carrying capacity.
And that, in turn, corresponds to billions of people going away.
Now, this could be handled humanely by planning for it in advance, or it could be handled the way we are planning for it now,
which is, oh, well, everything's going to be fine. Let's go to 15 billion people and then let's 10 billion of them die off from plagues and starvation.
So giga-famon is a biggie, but there are so many others.
You need to realize that future people are not going to be rich.
They're not going to have starships. They're not going to be living in space stations.
What we have coming up is an Earth Trek, and there have been no new kinds of energy discovered in the last 100 years.
There are a bunch of sentences out there right now, and it seems like anybody who wants to come up with a sentence that seems great, like, oh, solar roadways.
Let's put solar panels on the roads, and wow, yeah, venture capital. Let's get that.
There's a bunch of just crazy ideas that they're going to keep coming up, and you and I could be bloody wealthy if we just wanted to get on that train.
I think you've called it the tragedy of the energy investing commons, but any nutty thing can now be funded by crowdfunding, but also, you know, get funding from the government or from philanthropists,
because there's no real, you know, like I say, biogeophysical tether. There's no reality check.
The stuff can be discarded out of hand to be the projects or strategies, and that is a real great sieve to narrow down the things that can be done and should be done.
And likely we've got, we've got spent fuel rods sitting in swimming pools that as we saw in Fukushima, if the power goes out for, you know, until the emergency generators run out of diesel, well, you've got smoking radioactive pits.
Okay, those are all over the place because we don't think that'll ever happen. And there's all kinds of situations in which these discontinuities are going to give us problems.
When people come across the biophysical story of energy depletion, the carbon pulse, a very common initial response is, well, what about nuclear?
Nuclear is very energy dense. It seems abundant and or thorium, and it's safe. So why can't we get off of oil and have a nuclear-powered future?
Well, here's the thing. We would never, if we hadn't had flammable fossil stuff, we never would have had nuclear reactors or nuclear weapons for that matter.
Just like neodymium wind turbines and acres of solar panels and stuff, nuclear reactors are something that you make. They're mechanisms that you make with fossil energy.
They've never been made any other way. There's no indication that they could be made any other way. All of these are renewable.
Well, let's include nuclear with the other renewables and as long as we have a category that's made up.
Yeah, they do work. But of course, nuclear waste is uniquely poorly suited to a race that thinks everything's going to get better and easier forever.
So we've still got the fuel rods sitting in pools ready to melt down and no real plans to do anything else with it.
That's always one of my list of five to ten challenges with nuclear is the biggest one is we assume that there will be continuity of the human civilized endeavor for centuries or inevitably because as soon as there is non-continuity,
we have all the risk of the 450 nuclear plants and the spent fuel rods and everything else that don't have the energy surplus to hire people and to have the technology and supply chains to continue the remediation and cooling and all that stuff.
So it's energy blindness on the back end as well.
