and saying, whoa, whoa, this is the way to go.
Are we in this resurgence to understand how to understand
the brain and how to program machines
that think like brains?
It depends who you ask.
I mean, there's certainly still people
who argue very strenuously that neuroscience
is really important for building intelligent machines.
I don't think either for cognitive science
or for neuroscience, psychology or neuroscience,
they're both in some sense,
very dependent on our computational notions.
We need ideas from machine learning and other disciplines,
technical, formal ideas to interpret
both psychological and neural data.
I don't think it's the case that we've gotten a lot
of mileage out of just looking at those data
and from that extracting algorithms
that we can plug into machine learning systems.
I just don't think that's how it really works.
People have different arguments about this, of course.
Yeah, so let's kind of transition.
I just have a few general kind of broad questions for you
and then I'll let you go.
Okay, we'll see how you perform on this one.
So in the spirit of human compositional skills
and our ability to produce infinite things
from a finite set of things,
can you, Sam, utter a grammatically correct
English sentence right now
that you think nobody has ever said or written?
Sure, yeah.
I don't think that cuts it.
I mean, you could do any variant
of Chomsky's classic sentence,
colorless green ideas, sleep curiously.
You could have them sleep quiet, sleep.
Effervescently.
Effervescently, yeah, colorfully.
The adverbs, it's the adverbs that allow you to do this.
Yeah, yeah, I think it's pretty straightforward to do that.
Okay.
I could say the sentence,
I don't believe that Chomsky said
that colorless green ideas sleep curiously.
I bet that's been said, but we'll see.
I'll see if someone can Google it.
Okay, so often when we're stuck
and need to figure out the solution to some sort of problem,
we need to step away from the problem, right?
You can't just like, you know, you're at your desk,
you're trying to figure the thing out,
but it's only later when you step away
that the solution comes to you.
And often like immersing ourselves
in a like long form, complicated novel, for instance,
can lead to more creative ideas
than like reading a summary of that novel, right?
Presumably because we need to sort of steep
in that mind frame for longer,
not the things bubble into our minds.
Do you think that there's something about time scales?
And this, I thought you might be going to this
when you're talking about your dinner with the geologist.
Is there something about time scales and dynamics
and processing time that is important
for how we think and learn
and how maybe machines might need to think and learn?
So thinking of, you know, the idea is can,
like the geological formations, right?
They're moving and they're a dynamical system.
Could we, if you stepped back on a really slow time scale,
would those look intelligent?
Could we make the case that those looked intelligent, right?
Or is there something special
about the millisecond processing times of our brain
that gives rise to intelligence
and that we need to consider when building machines?
I don't think so.
I mean, it's not entirely clear whether you mean
that the time scales refer here
to the time scales of computational processing
versus the time scales of events unfolding in our world.
Like clearly we can reason about events
that happen at vastly different time scales,
even though the time scale
of our neural processing is fixed.
I didn't say I asked, they're gonna be good questions
or well constrained.
Yeah, I mean, I think that there's something important
about time scale, but I'm not sure what it is.
I mean, it is an intriguing question
why thinking over long periods of time would help you.
What is one idea that,
seemingly you have time to do all your ideas,
but what's one idea that you either don't have
the resources or time to tackle
that you wish someone else might pursue?
Yeah, well, a lot of my questions about the brain
really need to be answered in animal models.
And although I do human experiments in my lab,
I don't do animal experiments.
And so typically I try to farm out those animal experiments
to other labs that do that kind of research
and that's been-
No pun intended.
That's been very fruitful for me to answer questions,
for example, about the nature of dopamine processing.
So there's lots of questions like that.
I mean, often the kinds of experiments that we do,
we often try to design them in such a way
that both humans and animals could do those tasks.
And then eventually try to port them over to animals
and there's some process of convincing
an animal experimentalist to take on that challenge.
Well, they're busy, you know,
they've got other things going on.
Well, it's not just they're busy,
I think they're conservative,
understandably because it takes a long time
as you know to train animals.
That's what I mean, they're busy.
Yeah, they're steeped in their two year other experiment.
If you could bet on a single discipline or subdiscipline
that will break open our understanding of the human mind,
what would it be?
You could say cognitive science,
physics, astrology, et cetera.
Well, I feel like the longer that I do this stuff,
it just seems that the more everything kind of converges.
We already talked about how physicists came up
with this idea of free energy
that then got picked up by computer scientists
to develop efficient inference algorithms
that then got picked up by neuroscientists
to think about the brain.
Yeah.
I mean, all these things are intertwined.
They're deep, both formal and metaphorical
relationships between all of these concepts.
And so I really like what Sherlock Holmes said
that to understand nature,
your mind must be as broad as nature.
That's how I feel like really the study of intelligence
is that in a nutshell, right?
You need the intelligence is drawing upon
all of these different disciplines and ways of thinking.
So in that vein, keeping one's mind as broad as possible,
do you have advice that you would give
to say a graduate student
or an undergraduate interested in these topics
and just wanting to start out in the arena?
Like what, how to move forward?
Yeah.
I think it's hard for students to follow the path
of greater resistance because they look around
and they see what's happening, what's successful,
what's not successful.
And it's natural for people to gravitate towards
the things that they perceive as being more successful.
But the paradox is that to be really successful,
to really make a difference, to change the way people
are thinking, to change the course of scientific discovery,
you have to swim against the current.
You have to pursue ideas that are not popular,
that people might not agree with,
that might not really make sense at first.
You have to befriend the crackpots and read poetry
and take long walks and do all the things
that aren't ostensibly the right things to do,
the productive things, the good uses of time, right?
So we have to be really attentive to
the unappreciated importance of uselessness.
Oh, that's a good quote.
I tempted in there, but I'll have one more question
for you here.
So, will AI help us understand consciousness,
what it is, how it works, et cetera?
Yeah, I'm not sure.
Should've ended with the last one.
I don't feel like I can really give a good answer to that
because to me, most of the things that we do
that are intelligent are not necessarily conscious,
or what the conscious part of them is just kind of
the surface, the perceptible surface,
but most of the interest in computation
is going on under the hood.
And that's why the study of psychology has moved away
from just asking people what they're thinking
because demonstrably, people don't really know
what they're thinking.
So in my view, consciousness is a little overrated.
Damn, all right, well, I know what I'm thinking.
I'm feeling grateful and thinking I'm glad
to have you on the show.
So, Sam, where should people go to learn more about you?
Well, they can look up my lab webpage
and if they're interested in reading my papers,
that's where they all are.
Very good, that'll also be linked to in the show notes.
