peak oil, a phrase that was on a lot of people's minds and lips 15 years ago. We don't hear about
it so much anymore. What happened? Did it disappear? Was it discredited? Was it debunked? Was peak
oil no longer real? The core tenets of this podcast, The Great Simplification, treat peak oil as a
given. I think 15 years ago people focused which would be the date of peak oil because that will
change everything. We've now learned that things are a little bit more complex. There's geopolitics,
there's money, there's decline rates, there's new drilling, etc. But peak oil is a reality,
a present reality and it is the decadal observation of the century long and millennium long carbon
pulse which we are all living through. I think the important questions not only are when the date
of global oil production will hit a maximum, but how quickly will it decline after that
and will the shortfall in oil availability that is needed to power global economic growth
result in either a financial kind of rubber band dynamic or some sort of geopolitical
competition for the remaining exports. With me today is my close colleague,
Art Berman, who in sharing some graphs with me, we discovered something fascinating and
disturbing about U.S. oil production. So today we're not going to talk so much about the date
of peak oil as the stealth adjustment of the quality of what we call oil. This is a very
important podcast and I'm very fortunate to have Art sharing his graphs and analysis and
wisdom with me. Please welcome Art Berman. Art Berman, great to see you.
Good to see you too, Nate. Should I tell the public my nickname for you when I call you?
You're welcome to. Senior Petrolio.
I am guilty.
So I'm having you on is kind of this bonus unscheduled podcast because
as you know, but no one else knows, whatever I'm about to make a big public or government
presentation, I call you Art. I need some updated graphs and I've used your graphs for almost a decade
and in doing that last week, I needed an update on peak oil and in the creating of the graphs,
you did a lot of sleuthing and data collection and we discovered some things and that's what
we're going to talk about today because in 2019, I started publicly stating that there was over
a 90% chance that fourth quarter of 2018 will be known as peak oil and here we are three and a half
years later and you sent me some charts that speak to that and that's what we're going to talk about
today. But we didn't on our first podcast really talk about peak oil. Maybe we could just do that
very briefly. So from your perspective, Art, what is peak oil and why is it important?
So I'm an earth scientist. I'm a geologist and although I know some things about economics and
all those sorts of other subjects, I look at peak oil from an earth science perspective,
which is to say an earth systems perspective and I've been in the oil business now for over 40 years
and what I see is that this business has gotten increasingly complex just like all other human
systems and what that has meant is that oil is harder to find and when we do find it, it is much
more complicated or complex. They're not the same thing, but I think you know the difference
to produce and of course that has implications for cost. But about halfway through my career,
which is to say in the 80s, the industry became incredibly risk averse. In other words, it started
getting a lot of pressure from investors and so we stopped taking risk and that ultimately led to
the shale plays, which were viewed as a no risk proposition. The oil's there, all you got to do
is drill it and kaboom, you know, you're in good shape. The problem obviously with that is twofold.
Number one, these are incredibly complex reservoirs to drill and produce and number two,
once you're done with the shale plays, you haven't been exploring for 25 or 30 years,
so what are you going to do? And so as I look at it and again, I could go on about price and
inflation adjustment, but I won't because I think you have some ideas about the economics
and the link to ecology and human behavior and some other things. But just keeping it as simple as
possible, there are just some basic earth systems constraints that have bothered me for half of my
career. And as much as I try to get on board with, well, technology will save us or, you know, we're
going to find, I keep coming back to the same conclusion, which is it's not really changing.
And then the subject we're going to dive into once we get through with the peak oil part is the
issue of oil quality. And so much of what we call oil today is just not, it's just not even oil.
So I'm just going to leave it there. That's the concern that I have.
Well, let me define peak oil then very simplistically that humans extract energy,
fossil energy in this case. And we expand the scale of that and eventually we will hit a maximum
of the amount that we extract from the earth. And then from that point forward, there will be less,
either a little bit less or gradually accelerating to more or a sharp decline or some amount less.
And the reason it's important is energy underpins our economy and oil, liquid at room temperature,
incredibly dense, very cheap, used for our global transportation system,
is the master energy resource. So once it peaks and starts to decline, we still have plenty of oil
and a climate change activist would say too much oil. But what we don't have is the enough to
continue economic growth at the level required to pay back and maintain our existing financial
claims. So peak oil to me always meant an inflection point of the growth and the monetary and currency
system. But here's, okay, I'm going to tell you why I don't like the concept peak oil,
but maybe if you want to opine on that first, what problems do you have with that concept?
I mean, the oil drum was 15 years ago and here we are and there were a lot of people that were
clamoring that 2008 was the peak and then we would be in perpetual decline, but here we're not.
So do you want to say what problems you have with peak oil briefly?
Sure. So the problem that I see with peak oil is that we very quickly and I was engaged in it
even before we met, is that we got involved with trying to predict the peak without really
worrying about any of the underlying causes or reasons that we were even talking about a peak
and everybody got obsessed with, well, it will be 2008 or was it 2005 or is it going to be 2012?
And to me, that's where every movement, if you will, falls apart. It forgets why it started.
And so I go back to 1931 and King Hubbard, who was the fellow who at least is blamed for the
peak oil concept, he and a fellow named Howard Scott came up with an idea that basically what
you said, 1931, that since energy underlies the entire economy, those guys wanted to get rid of
money and they wanted to replace it with what they called energy certificates. And energy
certificates were going to be based on what the energy cost was to produce everything
and nothing else. So money was going to be a thing of the past and everything would be
denominated in energy. Now, Hubbard, of course, went on and he had some interesting ideas,
he had some crazy ideas too, but that was where he started. And despite the fact that Hubbard
worked in the oil business, he worked for Shell, he really wasn't a petroleum guy,
he was a resource guy, he was a statistician and his concern or where he left all of this
after his infamous speech in San Antonio, I think it was in 1956, where he actually showed his data
predicting the peak of US oil. The part that everybody forgets is what he said. And what he said
was that if we can somehow solve basically our social and psychological problems and not destroy
ourselves with nuclear weapons and somehow get population under control, then we could begin
to talk about how to apportion our energy resources correctly for perhaps 300 years. Now,
clearly we failed on all three of his criteria. So to me, that was always the core of peak oil,
not because King Hubbard invented it, but because what he said made a lot of sense to me and he
said it 90 years ago for cryonautlabs. So that's my perspective, Nate. Actually, I think it was
Shell, Alaclet that coined the word peak oil, not the concept, but the term. So here's some of the
problems that I have with the concept and the term, and then we'll get into some data.
So correct me if I'm wrong, but there's at least two things going on. There are all the existing
fields and wells that were drilled in the past that are continuing to produce oil. And if you
aggregate all of those with no new drilling at all, they are declining at something like
6% a year. So that's like all the stuff in the past. And then on top of that, we're having new
discoveries and new investment and new drilling and new fields, maybe in the Arctic or in the ocean
or in a new shale play in the US. We're adding that production on top of this large number
of declining wells. And as long as the net of those two is increasing in total,
we are making new production highs over time. Is that correct? That's right. So here's one thing
that I got wrong when I wrote about this stuff 15 years ago. I wrote my PhD on the concept of net
energy, which is it takes energy to get energy, which is obvious and correct and important.
And I thought that as oil depletion would accelerate, that we would need a lot more energy
to allocate to the energy sector and therefore GDP would decline. The first part of that was
right. The second part was wrong because when we have to drill more and hire more rigs and have
more trucks extract water and all the other complex resource and energy inputs into drilling,
that all actually adds to GDP. So one of the problems with the term peak oil is it's a moving
target because even as net energy is declining, GDP represents gross energy until we have an
actual shrinking economy, then that will change. So that's what's been going on lately is we've
been growing the total amount of global oil production. And as we're going to talk about in
a moment, it's not even oil that we're growing. But we're gradually slowly turning into what I call
a mordor economy, which is more and more of our energy is directed to the energy sector,
meaning that the rest of the world has to pay higher prices or use less because the energy
sector is pulling that up. And we hit a low as a society in 1999 of around 5% of our energy
going to the energy sector and now it's 10% or above on route to something larger. So
I do totally agree with you that the focus on the date of the peak and I've been guilty of this
belies the fundamental reality, which is we've based an entire civilization on this.
And let's not worry about what day the peak is, the peak is soon. And what are we going to do
with our financial system, with our geopolitical, who's getting what share of the pie, all these
sorts of questions are important. Now, let's get to the point of this podcast. So I actually,
I had some things wrong, but I actually had some things right as well. Let me read you
the first paragraph from the very first article I wrote on the oil drum in 2006.
Peak oil will silently morph into peak liquids. This is relevant because the definitional layers
that we add on top of crude oil are not equal in what they provide to society. It is also relevant
in that the logistical heuristic used by MK Hubbard was not intended to include corn and
sugarcane derived ethanol, tar sands or natural gas liquids in its predictive theory of oil basin
decline. The concept of peak oil, already not widely believed, will start to be very confusing
and probably even more combative. In essence, we need to either A, adjust EIA data to exclude
growing biofuel, NGL and coal liquid inputs, or B, recognize that for practical peak oil
societal impact purposes, we really do primarily care about the net liquid fuel available and the
costs of same, which would require categorical adjustments and handicapping for energy quality.
Well, one thing that hasn't changed in 16 years is I still use a lot of words.
First of all, what do you think about that statement? I'm assuming you largely agree with that.
Oh, I think it's absolutely dead on, Nate. I mean, and I say that after a fairly deep dive here
in the last week or two into just exactly what is it that we call oil. And I've known this,
you've known this for a long time. We've all known, I say all of us that have been
interested, deeply interested in energy, that there has always been a substantial component
of strange things like natural gas liquids and refinery gain and all of that. But until
for me at least, until I actually immerse myself in the data and make graphs,
it never quite sinks in to what extent that has become the truth and the reality. And that was
really the ah-ha, not that any of it surprised me, it was the magnitude of it that surprised me.
So let's look at the headline numbers. I have said publicly often that peak oil
is likely with 90% odds to be November of 2018. Can you give us an update on where this stands?
Yeah, so November 2018 world production was somewhere in excess of 100 million barrels a day.
2020, the world fell apart. And we had negative $37 a barrel oil price for a while.
And we had no place to store oil, which is why it got to negative 37 for one day. And production
dropped, you know, many, many million barrels. And in about mid 2020, we kind of got our act
a little bit together, or at least we put some band-aids on it. And since then, oil production
has been increasing. And as of November, we're up to 100 million barrels a day. So you look at
the data and say, well, we're almost there. We've 99% recovered to that peak level in November of
2018. And looking at the slope of that recovery, you'd say, well, Nate, you're going to be wrong.
Because we're going to get past that 102 million barrels a day, probably next year, the year that
we're in right now. So that's the update. Yep, probably, unless there is an eminent global
recession. More a big war or something. More a big war or something like that.
Just briefly to point out, though, is each time these things happen, that underlying decline rate
becomes a larger loadstone relative to the new drilling. So we may make new highs, but we're
not going to go to 110 or 120 million barrels unlikely, right? No. And if you look closely,
and you know, when we do look at this data, you see that the rate of increase does appear to be
slowing. But nonetheless, I mean, so that, but that, you know, that's the superficial reality.
So all we're looking at is everything we call oil. And it says, well, you know,
life is good. And all of you peak oil guys are wrong again.
Okay, so you have much better data for the USA than globally. But let's look at another chart.
Has the US surpassed the 2018-19 peak recently or not?
Yes, it has. So for the United States, that peak actually wasn't in 2018. It was just before COVID
shut us all down. The US is sort of on its own timeline here. But that peak monthly peak was
about 20 and a little bit million barrels a day. And as of last month, we're at 20.8. And so we've
now beaten that level. And so all of the things that you and I have also said, at least superficially,
just looking at everything we call oil, we're both wrong.
So in the creation of this chart, what did you discover?
Well, I discovered a couple of things. And so the first thing I did to this chart was to
segregate it into what is actually oil and what is what I call production of non petroleum. Now,
petroleum is a word that, I mean, it's a Greek word and it means rock oil. Okay. And so everything
that comes from oil, I'm calling in, you know, here, oil production. And we can split hairs and
argue esoterically about that. But the non petroleum fraction is everything else, which is to say
things that come from plants, you know, the biofuels that you were talking about,
the natural gas liquids, they don't come from oil, they come from natural gas.
Natural gas is a hydrocarbon, but it's not petroleum. It's not a liquid petroleum.
And it does contain some liquids that we can talk a little bit about how they get separated out.
But again, they don't have anywhere near the energy content or the heat content of crude oil.
And then there are other funny things in there like refinery gain, which is a volumetric expansion
that just happens when you refine something dense like oil into less dense products like
gasoline and kerosene. And what I found when I made that graph was, holy cow, what we call oil,
only 60% of it is actually what I would call oil. So 40% of what we're counting as oil and saying,
okay, no problem, we're already ahead of it in the US and we're almost there in the world,
is because this large portion that doesn't even come from oil is growing at a faster rate than
the oil production is. So all of a sudden, we're back to peak oil again.
4% or 40%? 40% of what the International Energy Agency and the Energy Information Agency in the USA
call oil in their production reports is not oil? It's not oil. I'm not saying it has no value.
I know, I know, I know, but it's not, it doesn't even come from oil. It's not a petroleum product.
Okay. And, and you listed out several things. There's ethanol, there's refinery gain,
there's natural gas, plant liquids, what else? No, there's all sorts of funny things, you know,
there's, there's, you know, like there's, you know, there's, there's asphalt and there's things
that, you know, that actually come from petroleum, but are not used as a fuel. And so in these natural
gas liquids, for instance, the biggest single component is ethane. All right, natural gas
liquids are the largest non petroleum component. But what do we use ethane for? We make baggies
out of it for the most part. I mean, it could be used as a fuel, but it's not used as a fuel. And
so, and I'm not, I'm not in any way criticizing the EIA or the IEA or any of these organizations.
I'm just saying, look, this is, this is how they, this is their accounting system.
And, and, and it's useful as far as it goes. But for, for those who are deeply concerned about
how we're going to maintain our civilization, since it's based on oil, we better look at
