how much of that is actually oil. And what we have to discount, as you said earlier on,
all the rest of it, so we can actually look at how does our future seem to us?
Well, one of the, one of the biggest benefits that we get from oil is its energy density,
how much BTUs are smashed into a tiny little bit of volume. So there's a lot of heat potential
there. What is the heat potential of natural gas liquids relative to oil?
Well, it's a lot less. And so, you know, in rough numbers, it's, it's like 67%.
So, you know, it's, it's, it's, you know, it's 33% less heat content or energy density than oil.
And that assumes that you're going to use it all as a fuel. And I just told you that 55% of it's
used to make baggies. So, you know, we have to, we have to start, you know, understanding,
what are we really talking about here? So in the same way that the Bureau of
Economic Analysis might create a CPI metric that over time, since people are poorer,
and they don't want to show high inflation, they're now eating hamburger instead of steak.
And therefore, they don't show much of a headline that this is like a hedonic adjustment for peak
oil. Yeah, it's, it's, it's hamburger helper. So, so what percent of our oil production
in the gross sense is natural gas liquids? You said it's 40% of all those things.
What percent is NGL? Well, again, you know, it's, it's, it's, it matters whether you're
talking United States or world, but just the US. Yes, it's 30%. So 30% of what all the energy
hedge fund managers and everyone looking at how much oil we're producing, 30% of that is natural
gas liquids, which have two thirds only of the heat content. And there's a big component of plastic
baggy inputs in that figure as well. Precisely. And if you look at that 2020 COVID drop that,
you know, shows up in every graph of just about everything, but certainly oil production,
there was a huge jump in that relative percent of NGL in the year 2020. And so it went
because the oil production dropped and the NGL production didn't. Where, where do we get NGLs
from? Is that a byproduct of drilling for natural gas? It is natural gas. Okay. So natural gas
gets produced, some of it with oil and some of it all by itself. And in the ground,
you know, buried at great depth and temperature and pressure, it's, it's, it's all, it's all a liquid.
Okay. Or I'm sorry, it's all a gas. And when it comes to the surface and you reduce the pressure,
then some of it drops out as a liquid. So is that kind of what we do with creating LNG to ship
across to Europe? Like we're doing what Mother Nature does? It's the reverse. We take, we take
methane, which is the, the lightest fraction of natural gas and the part, then that's exactly
what we burn in our stoves and our furnaces and all of that. And we cool it. We put it under
tremendous pressure and drop the temperature to something like, you know, almost 300 degrees below
zero. And we force that methane to precipitate into a liquid. We put that into pressurized
containers on a tanker, send it wherever somebody wants to buy it. And then when it gets there,
then they have a special terminal that, that regasifies that, that lets off all of that pressure
and, and allows the gas to come back to room temperature. And then it turns back into a gas.
So if we hypothetically were running low on oil and society is fundamentally dependent on oil,
not natural gas or coal, though those are also important, could we boost, dramatically boost
our natural gas production and turn it into, turn at a loss, at a cost, turn it into liquids,
like you just said, that could be used for oil with a lot of baggies as an externality?
Well, no, you can only, you can only turn, I mean, so just turning it into a liquid,
like I just explained with methane into, you know, into LNG, I mean, you can't burn it at
300 degrees below zero and send in 10 times the atmospheric pressure. So, so you're stuck,
you're in the same place. And once you've, you've allowed that to come back to room or surface
temperature, it has no liquids in it to begin with, it's just methane, it's the simplest
hydrocarbon molecule, it's just carbon and hydrogen. So, so to your question, though,
natural gas, much of it contains other things like, you know, like, like ethane,
like butane, like propane, like pentane, and those are liquids at surface temperatures and
pressures, all right? And we remove those from the natural gas because the gas pipelines don't
want to have anything to do with that, because they mess up their, their pipeline process.
And so we, we, we strip those out in a plant. And that's why it's called natural gas plant
liquids. We send the natural gas to a plant where they, through gravity and some screen meshes and
a few catalysts, they force all that liquid to segregate by gravity away from the natural gas.
They send the natural gas, the methane, off in a pipeline to your heater or your gas stove. And
then we have some fraction of liquid that remains. And those liquids, none of them
have anywhere near the heat or the energy content of crude oil, but they have more than, than, than
methane. So they're, you know, they're, they're good for things. So what do we use those for? Well,
you know, you go out and you buy, you know, we use, when people smoke cigarettes, I guess they
still do, you go out and you buy a big lighter, all right? Well, that's butane. Or when you light
your, you know, your gas, your, your, your charcoal grill, you buy something at the supermarket,
that's butane. Propane for people like you that live in the country and don't have the benefit
of piped methane to your house. You, a guy comes out and fills a tank with propane and you heat
your house with propane. So propane, you know, it's good stuff, but it's not crude oil. It doesn't
have anywhere near the heat or the energy content of crude oil. So all the world's existing oil wells
are in aggregate decline of something like 6%, right? Right. And we're adding new drilling
around the world, new, new fields, new discoveries. But much of what we're adding and what we're adding
at an increasing rate is effectively locale additions from the heat and energy quality
standpoint in the form of NGPL and other things. Well, that's right. And so the, when we look at
part of the complexity that I talked about, the, the biggest complexity in continuing
to find and produce oil is that it's deeper. And the deeper it gets, the hotter it is. And the hotter
it is, the farther along the natural thermal maturation process it is. And so the, the earth is
like a refinery. And, and, and so most of the oil that we're finding today, it has a larger percentage
of natural gas in it than the oil that we found say 50 years ago, simply because the earth, it was,
it was from a part of the earth that was shallower and therefore it wasn't naturally refined as much.
So a higher and higher percentage of what we produce when we find oil and gas together is natural gas.
Conversely, less is crude oil. And the crude oil that we find is a lighter grade of crude oil that
also has a lower energy density, not hugely lower, but you know, six, seven, eight percent lower. So
the, the, the shale oil that people talk about doesn't have the same energy content as the crude
used at Gawar. It's, it's, you know, it's, it's discounted by seven or eight percent and a huge
amount of it. So when they talk about, oh, well, you know, our, our wells in the Permian are making
a million barrels a day. Well, that's a million barrels of oil equivalent. They're converting a
whole ton of natural gas into its oil equivalency number, even though it's still natural gas and
not oil. So it's kind of stealth peak oil in a way. That's a good way to put it. Absolutely.
Yeah. Okay. So I'm looking at the charts you just sent me an hour ago. Look at number nine.
Can you describe what is going on? We've been talking about the United States. Can you
describe what's been going on globally? Okay. So this is a, first of all, it's an incremental chart
which doesn't change anything about it, except that it makes it easier to, to see the, the
volumetric relationship. So the blue is everything that is crude oil and condensate, condensate being
the light liquid fraction of crude oil, lighter than crude, but still, you know, in that 93% of
energy content. So the lion share, if you will, is, is crude oil and condensate. But then, so,
but then the other stuff, the hotter colors, that's everything else. Okay. So you can't really see the
hottest of the, the orange very well. So I've put a little arrow there. That's refinery gain.
And refinery gain is strictly, as I said before, it's simply when you refine, when you change
something more dense into less dense, refined products, you get a volume expansion. You start
with one barrel and you get 1.15 barrels out, because the stuff coming out is a lower density.
So you get a little pop from that. The next, the next category up is what's called other.
Okay. Other, those are a whole slew of products that are not used as fuel. They are from,
they are technically from petroleum, but they're, they're things that we just, we simply do not
use as a fuel. And then the highest category is NGL, which is natural gas liquids or natural gas
plant liquids, which we've been describing in, in some detail. Now, the world has a slightly
different breakdown of, of those percentages than does the United States. And as it turns out,
the, the, the percentage of natural gas liquids is not quite as high, but it is high and it's growing.
So again, the United States is just a more mature petroleum province and a more advanced
economy. So the rest of the world's getting there. An observation and a question. So 25 years ago,
the amount of oil that we produced was almost all oil, crude and condensate,
but the amount of the other things, the refinery gain, the other and the NGL,
globally, according to this chart are now what, what percent of the total oil?
I, you know, I don't have it on the chart, but I'm going to say it's like 20 or 22 or 3%.
20%. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that, that's a big deal. So what is the NGL mostly being used for?
The NGL is mostly being used to make plastics. And it's being used, as I said, for, so the biggest
portion, which is ethane is used to make various kinds of plastics. The butane and the propane,
which are the other biggest components are used for other stuff, you know, like heating homes and,
and cigarette lighters. But the point that I think, you know, before I move on, because you
made an excellent point, and that is, you know, you go back to, to the early mid 90s and almost
everything we produced was crude oil and condensate. All right. But look at how much less
the world used back in those days. So we were only, I mean, we were only using
70 million barrels a day of whatever you want to call oil back in the mid 90s.
And today we're using more than 100 of whatever you want to call oil. So the world
has used half the oil that it's ever used since 1995. Half the world's production
and use has come in the last 27 years. So the rate of use has accelerated tremendously. And
that's not surprising because look at the population. I have a bunch of questions, Art. So
the US, you said, is closer to the higher thermal mother nature refining. We have lighter oil here,
which we talked about on your last podcast, which was quite excellent on diesel and refining. And
I encourage people to, to watch that. But combining the message of that
with what you just said now, what are the implications for the United States where a
lot of what we're terming oil is for plastics and baggies, etc. And we have a lot of light
fraction sort of crude. So we're like set up for driving and putting fruit and food in bag,
in quart freezer bags. I mean, how does this position us? Peak oil, currencies, financial
markets aside. What does this suggest as far as risks for the US economy, given the natural gas
liquid and our light oil situation? The US is set up to sell stuff. Okay. I mean, that's what we do.
We are absolutely an energy launderer. And so that means that we have to buy other people's oil
because ours is super light. And you know, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not criticizing us.
We have reduced our, our imports a lot in the last 20 years, but we've reached, we've reached
a level where we just can't use any more of our light crude oil. We just can't. And so we send
it overseas. We're exporting, you know, something like three and a half, four million barrels of
crude oil, light crude oil a day, because we just don't need it. We got nothing, we can't do anything
with it. And we are importing six and a half or seven million barrels a day of heavier oil from,
you know, you name your source, but people who produce refinery ready oil, which is, you know,
has higher energy density and, and, and, you know, it's thicker oil because we need that in our
refineries in order to produce things like diesel, which is the biggest cash cow in the world. And
it is a fairly heavy, it's a fairly heavy compound. And if you look at its heat content, I mean diesel,
depending on, you know, how it's produced, I mean, it can actually have a greater heat content or
energy content than crude oil. Maybe describe to our listeners slide 11 that I will put on screen.
Yeah. So slide 11 shows what all of the, the various refined products that come out of a refinery,
whether they come from, you know, from natural gas or they come from crude oil. And it shows the,
the amount, the, the energy content, and it shows the percent of what, you know, of the total
product that's produced. So for instance, you know, if we look at something like,
you know, like crude oil, which in this graph is, is in red. All right. So its heat content is,
you know, is something like, you know, 5.7 British thermal units, million, million BTUs per barrel.
Okay. And we look at diesel and it's actually slightly higher. Okay. It's, it's, you know,
it's 1% more than crude oil because it's one of the densest products that we make. Heating
oil is even a little higher and residual is even higher. But look at all of the other stuff down
the line. The gasoline, it only has a heating content of 89% of crude oil. Butane that we talked
about for, you know, cigarette lighters, it's got 74% propane, 67%. And then you get all the way down
to ethane, which has got less than half the heating content. So, you know, these are, these are the
realities. 40% of our oil now is natural gas liquids and the main component of natural gas
liquids is ethane and ethane is 49% of the heat content of what we used to consider as crude oil.
Correct. How many people know that in your field, in your field?
I think, I think a lot of people have like a, a notional sense that that's true. And I say that
because before I made these charts a couple of weeks ago, that's pretty much what I had. I think
I had a, you know, a stronger sense that these numbers were lower than the average person in
the oil business. The average person in the oil business is real smart, but isn't focused on this
stuff. I mean, that person is focused on what he's paid to do, which is where do we drill the next
well? How do we optimize production? You know, how do we make the economics work? The stuff you
and I are talking about is, is related to, to the system. You know, how is this serving civilization,
the economy, economic growth, and that's, that's, you know, people are not, they're not paid to
look at that. Somebody in the company is, but they're not. The, the heat content is ultimately
what's, what's powering our system, but everything in these charts is sold somewhere
like it's used. So someone is buying all these other things towards some economic
activity. So the fact that we're growing the total amount still results in an economic output.
It's just not the, the flame is, is dwindling.
Exactly. That's why I said, I mean, the United States, I mean, we're in the business
of selling stuff and we do it very, very well. I mean, we are also in the business of buying
stuff though, writ large, but you're talking about energy and oil products.
Yeah, sorry. I absolutely am talking about that. So, so my point is, is that
the U.S. oil industry, refining industry, petrochemical industry is doing exactly what
its investors expect from it. It's maximizing shareholder value. It's maximizing profit,
ROCE, return on capital employees, doing all the stuff that everybody wants it to do, demands
that it do, but it's not necessarily doing that for the well-being of the United States.
And I take that phrase directly from M. King Hubbard.
But no one's doing that. We're in service to the super organisms and corporations are
miniature super organisms. It's no one's fault. They're following the rules that,
that were set out. But let's get back to, I want to make sure that we cover your main points
graphically. Looking at your slide eight, there's two things that we didn't talk about.
So you said that 40% of what the EIA and other people label as oil is not oil. We talked about
natural gas liquids and refinery gains. What is the light orange fuel ethanol? Is that corn
ethanol? And then what is the renewables and oxygenates, the little yellow on top?
So going through this systematically, what we see is that we've got this big swath of blue,
which is oil. And of that, we have two categories. One is conventional oil, the other is tight oil.
And conventional oil, this is United States, is at best been flat forever. It's actually
declining a little bit. And all of the growth is in tight oil. And we've discussed how it has
a slightly lower energy density and it's, you know, it's lighter and all that.
And a much faster decline rate once the wells drill.
Well, and as we've discussed before, everything newly drilled in the United States has a much
higher decline rate, a stunningly high decline rate of, you know, like 40-some-odd percent.
You don't have that graph in this deck, but briefly, you should show that that basically
if we stop drilling in the United States today, our total amount of oil, and I don't know how
natural gas liquids fit into that, would drop by 40% in the first year. And then another double
to just the second and third year, because it is truly the Red Queen phenomenon that we have
