to keep drilling in order to offset the steep decline of the light oil, the tight oil, which is
the largest fraction of our oil right now. It's more than, it's about 60%. Yeah.
So we've talked about refinery gain. We, you know, that's just the volumetric expansion of
taking something real dense and splitting it into lower density products like gasoline and kerosene,
et cetera, fuel ethanol. I mean, fuel ethanol is something that, you know, 10 or 15% of everything
you put in your car or your truck is not gasoline anymore. It's fuel ethanol. And that was a change
that came about in the early 2000s, I think, during the Bush administration when oil prices
got real high. And the idea was, well, we need to conserve our gasoline. So if we add fuel ethanol,
which is basically alcohol, it's denatured alcohol, then we can make our gasoline go further. Well,
fuel ethanol comes from corn. Most of it's corn. You know, we can make whiskey with corn. We can
make another kind of alcohol, denatured alcohol to put it mixed with gasoline. And that's from
corn also. And we can make tamales and chips. Well, if we are interested in Senor Petrolio,
we like all those things. Well, if you're someone that actually is living and wants to have food
to survive, you're also interested in those things.
And I like those things. Renewables and oxygenates.
Hold on. Just a quick side note there. You probably don't know this, but it was my one
time that I was in the journal Science was in 2005 talking about this on the fact that
corn ethanol was hardly net energy positive. And it was more of a energy conversion than an
energy source because we use fossil fuels to grow the corn and natural gas to dry the corn and the
whole process to convert this corn into usable liquid fuel for vehicles. But again, just like
ethane or natural gas liquids, ethanol also has a lower heat content per gallon, correct?
Well, it does. And so you need, yeah, you basically, you don't get the same range. You fill up your
tank with 15% ethanol and your car doesn't go as far as if you've filled it up with 100%
or the flex fuel vehicles that have up to 70% or whatever it is, they even have a lesser range?
For sure. Yeah. And the other thing, of course, is that you're competing, you're using food for fuel.
And so that has the effect of you use less of what you grow to feed people. And it also
increases the cost of agricultural land, which, you know, and again, we get into this whole
complexity cascade that, I mean, it seemed like a pretty good idea to somebody when we did it.
But when you actually start analyzing it, we wish that we hadn't done, most people wish we
hadn't done it, but we're stuck with it. You know, it's a million barrels a day.
Why are we stuck with it? Why couldn't we wind that down with a three-year phase out or something?
Oh, we could physically do it, but I mean, all the farmers would scream.
You know, all the congressmen who support those farmers would scream. I mean, you know, we can't
do anything unless everybody agrees that it's, you know, that it suits their constituents. And so
the likelihood of that happening, I think, is very close to zero. We could do it, you know, very
easily. Okay, back to slide eight. You were about to talk about the renewables and oxygenates.
Yeah, so there's a very small percentage of all of this that, you know, the renewables,
those are, you know, those are things like biodiesel. Those are things like, you know,
you mentioned, you know, you can actually create some sort of fuel from coal. It's such a small
percentage that I don't really even want to talk about it because, you know, it's something that
gets a lot of press, but it doesn't contribute hardly anything to the bottom line. And oxygenates
are just things to, you know, to increase the oxygen content to make it burn hotter. Okay,
but it doesn't, it doesn't last, you know, it's a decline rate kind of problem. So the real message
of this graph and every other one that I've shown so far is simply that any way you look at it,
whether you look at the world, whether you look at the United States, which of these components
you focus on, you know, whether you look just at the composition of the natural gas, whether you
look at the composition of the oil, you keep coming back to the same thing. And that is that
oil ain't what it used to be. And that has implications. We don't get as much energy
out of what we call oil today as we did a few decades ago back when, you know, I mean, I was
still 20 years into my career in the mid 90s. And so the world, I mean, the basis for our energy
proposition has fundamentally changed. But the only thing people pay attention to is the top line.
Are we producing 100 million barrels a day? Are we producing 95? Because if it's only 95,
that's bad. If it's 100, that's good. But we're just looking at it, you know, how much are we
cranking out? We're not looking at what goes into it and what we therefore get out of it.
And so without those big impressive numbers that people use all the time to say, oh,
peak oil, that was just a bunch of alarmists, you know, those guys didn't know what they were talking
about. They're clearly wrong. And I'm not trying to, you know, defend peak oil or criticize those
that criticize peak oil. But I would say that neither of them really knows or knew what they
were talking about. They were each focused on an N member and not actually looking at how all of
this stuff interrelates across the spectrum from crude oil to natural gas liquids or renewables
and oxygenates. And when you do, we're just, you know, back to your dissertation, the net energy
that we get out of it is lower than where we were not very long ago. So the bottom line,
if the economy holds up in 2023, we could pierce a 2018 quarter for new all time record of
what is considered oil, but that's actually all liquids. But the fine print, the hedonic
adjustment as it were, is a massive fraction of what we're considering oil. In the United States,
40% is natural gas liquids and other things that have lower heat content and can't be directly
used as oil. That's correct. That's absolutely right. And if you break out the crude oil fraction
of all of this, what you find is not only are we nowhere near recovering even to the 2000,
late 2018 level, but the rate of increase of crude oil and condensate production
is either flat or in decline. So the future, at least, you know, with the limited data we have
right now is not real encouraging for us ever getting back to the 85 million barrels a day of
crude oil and condensate that the world produced just a couple of years ago.
If there was an energy-related Nobel Prize called the Hubbard Prize or something, you should deserve
one for your energy sleuthing on this. You're a real pit bull once I give you a question and
a challenge. You come up with these charts and graphs and you double check them. And I'm grateful
for your curious and diligent mind art. Well, thank you, Nate. I love a challenge and
many years ago I was giving a talk and I guess somebody thought it was depressing.
And he said, what motivates you to do this kind of research and give these kind of talks?
That, you know, was a fair question. And the answer I gave him still remains and that is that
I'm fascinated by what I don't understand. And so I'm not a doomster. I'm not trying to bring
people down. You know, I'm not here. I'm a scientist. I'm describing the state of things,
in this case the state of energy. And to me, it's neither optimistic or pessimistic. It's just what
it is. And when I find out, gee, I misunderstood that or I only understood it partly, you know,
that motivates me to understand it better. So I have a lot of takeaways from this conversation,
but the simplest one is when is peak oil is really not a helpful question because of everything we
just discussed. However, the broad concept that oil will peak and decline has massive implications
for society in our future. Those are the two major takeaways and how did we somehow get here and
nobody noticed? Well, maybe the answer to that question is because we, and I say that with a
very broad stripe, cared about identity and making predictions and being right about something when
the larger story was so complex and so vital that now there's this cry wolf thing. Can you
believe at art that here we are 16 years after I wrote that article, no one cares or understands
about peak oil anymore. I think the bullets were spent in 2007, eight, nine, 10, and we're in such
a more of a dire situation today, oil wise, geopolitical wise, financial overshoot wise.
And now what do we hear? Oh, we're not going to need oil because of peak demand or there's plenty
of oil for 100 years. I think peak oil, not to us and the circle of people that we do analysis with,
but to the broader public, peak oil has been debunked. Yeah, it's a failed idea and it's
interesting that so many people talk about it as if it's a theory. They call it the peak oil theory
and whether it was right, wrong, or neutral, it was never a theory. It was an observation.
It was a simple, it was an empirical kind of thing. It said, hey, you know, we have a limited
volume of this stuff. At some point, we're going to have to spend a whole lot more money
and work a lot harder to get what's left. I mean, that was never a theory and that was never wrong.
But you know, it's fascinating that we talk about things that happened 20 years ago, but
when Hubbard gave his talk in 1956, the company he worked for, Shell, immediately launched an
investigation of him to find out where he was. Oh, yeah, yeah. They launched an investigation
of him to show where he was wrong, which of course they never could do. They could never
could do it. Well, he ended up being right about US oil peaking in 1970 because at that time,
just like Malthus or Erlich didn't know about the fossil carbon pulse and globalization and debt,
he didn't know about the Gulf of Mexico, the North Slope, and then shale oil. He was just
projecting conventional crude, right? And the point of what he was doing was not
any kind of gloom and doom. He was just saying, hey guys, we got to start working on other stuff.
And by the way, he was big into nuclear. He thought nuclear was a big part of the energy
solution. But he was simply saying, we need to think about this. We've got to get our population
under control. We've got to get our consumption under control. And we got to make sure we don't
kill each other with nuclear weapons. And surely there's a way that we can figure out how to make
this last as long as we need it. I mean, that was all he was saying. And yet the controversy that
he raised was greater, I think, at the time than anything that the people in peak oil experienced
10 or 15 or even a few years ago. I mean, he was really on the hot seat.
Yeah. Well, it's threatening to the status quo to say that there may be less in the future.
And so what's happened the last 15 years is we've kicked a hell of a lot of cans,
rule changes, too big to fail, quantitative easing, artificially low interest rates,
all to the larger straw, which is the shale experiment. And yeah, this might go on for a
while longer, but after it stops, there's, I think, a doozy of a hangover because we've been
consuming beyond our means for a long time. And this decline rate that underpins what you've
discussed isn't going away. And so we're trying to offset that. And not only that, but the stuff
that we're offsetting it with isn't worth as much from an energy heat standpoint. So this has all
been super helpful art. Let me put you on the spot here. What else are you curious about?
And what might you like to discuss on a future podcast appearance here?
Well, I'm really curious about when the world will realize that all of the alternatives to oil
are basically only good for electric power generation. And electric power generation
is a relatively smaller portion of the total energy consumption that we have. And so I'm not,
again, being critical or saying anything other than observation. And that is the idea that the
fact that people think that somehow renewable energy is going to solve everything we've been
talking about, it's simply not true. It cannot. We can't do all the things that we need to do in
our civilization just with electric power. And so in a way, we're solving the easy part of the
problem and convincing ourselves that once we finally get it right, we'll have the whole thing
solved. And again, I'm all for renewable energy. I'm totally in favor of renewable energy,
but it's simply not going to solve any of the stuff we've been talking about today.
Well, you know, I agree with that. In my writings, I say renewable energy can power a great civilization,
just not this one. So you have, I'll give you six weeks to come up with those charts and graphs,
and we'll talk again. Okay, Nate, that sounds good.
Mucho gracias, Sr. Petrolio. This has been great, very helpful. I hope people understand
the importance of what you've laid out here. I found it fascinating and it makes total sense
now that I've seen the graphs. Well, I enjoyed the research and hopefully this will get a few people
thinking and asking questions. And if not, we'll find another subject that maybe we'll get their
interest in a different way. Thanks so much, Art. I'll talk to you soon. My pleasure, Nate. Always
good to talk to you. If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit thegreatsimplification.com
for more information on future releases.
