from the electrical network of the rest of the body.
They have their own weirdly depolarized voltage.
They're basically like amoebas at that point.
They're just going to treat the rest of the body
as external environment.
This is metastasis.
They've rolled back to their individual unicellular past.
So how do we do these kinds of experiments?
We've borrowed a lot of tools from neuroscience.
We do not use, there are no applied fields,
no electrodes, no electromagnetic radiation,
nothing like that.
This is manipulating the native interface,
the native bioelectrical interface
that cells expose to each other
to enable them to program each other's activity collectively.
So what those are are ion channels and gap junctions.
So we can use all of the techniques from neuroscience.
So we could mutate the channels
to give them new properties.
We can put in new channels.
We can block channels pharmacologically.
We can do it with light.
So optogenetics, all the same tools.
It's very interesting that neither the tools
nor the concepts of neuroscience
can tell the difference between brains and other tissue.
So all of the stuff works.
So we do, we steal everything from neuroscientists,
all the neurotransmitter machinery and drugs,
optogenetics, active inference, perceptual by stability,
you name it, all of these concepts
are directly transferable
because the difference between other cells and neurons
are, there are some important differences,
but all of them are capable of the key thing,
which is to make these electrically
active information processing networks.
So let me give you some examples
of what happens when you make some of these changes.
So one thing you can do is we can micro-inject
into this frog embryo,
some RNA that encodes an ion channel,
let's say a potassium ion channel,
that will set the same electrical state
that we observed in the eye field and that electrical face,
the embryo, the electric face in the embryos.
When you do this, what you've communicated to the cells
is that they should form an eye
and you can do this to cells in the gut,
on the tail, anywhere,
not just in the anterior and erected arm
where the textbooks tell you
are the only cells competent to make eyes,
that's actually not true.
If you go further up the chain of command
and edit the bioelectrical pattern,
and any cells in this body will make a complete eye.
These eyes have all the right layers of retina,
optic nerve core, all the stuff is here.
Notice a couple of interesting features here.
One feature is that what we have not done
is reprogrammed specific stem cells for specific fates.
We put in a very simple signal,
we don't try to micromanage the cells.
This is basically a subroutine call.
We're communicating to the collective
that the eye state is what it should make.
We are not trying to micromanage the individual cells.
And so this is modularity.
This is really like a subroutine call.
We just say build an eye here,
the all the downstream cascades turned on after that.
The second amazing competency that these cells have
is they can do what ants and termites do,
which is recruitment.
So here is a lens,
this ectopic lens is sitting out in the flank
of a tail somewhere.
These blue cells are the ones
that we've actually injected with ion channels,
but there's not enough of them to make a proper lens.
And so what they do is they recruit their neighbors,
these other brown cells that are completely wild type,
there's no extra channel there,
but they're recruited by these cells a secondarily.
So there's two levels of instruction.
We instruct these cells, hey, make an eye,
these cells instruct their neighbors,
there's not enough of us, you've got to help.
And so they have the ability to detect
whether there's enough of them to do the task.
And if there's not,
they have the ability to instruct their neighbors to join in.
And these are cells that otherwise would have made
but pieces of the tail.
And so these are some really interesting capacities
of the cellular collective to get its job done.
We can make, so in addition to eyes,
we can make extra limbs here,
you can make extra forebrains,
you can make extra hearts,
we can make otocysts or inner ear organs,
or you can make fins.
Now that's interesting because tadpoles don't have fins,
there's more of a fish thing,
we'll get to that momentarily.
But so targeted misexpression of ion channels,
meaning creating a new bioelectrical state
calls up different organs.
You can not individual cell states, but actual organs.
And we can take advantage of this biometrically,
for example, here's a frog.
Frogs normally do not regenerate their legs.
So if the leg is lost 45 days later,
there's nothing going on here, there's a cross section.
We came up with a cocktail,
and this is the work of Kelly Chang in my lab,
who basically created a cocktail
that triggers regeneration decision in this wound,
24 hour treatment,
and then legs grow for up to a year and a half,
and we never touched them during that point.
But after 24 hours, already the signals have been passed
to convince the cells that this is the path
through morpho space they should be taking,
not towards scarring, but towards regeneration.
And so immediately you turn on these MSX1,
which are these pro regenerative gene,
by 45 days you already have some toes,
you've got a toenail up here,
and eventually a very respectable frog leg
that is touch sensitive and motile, meaning it's functional.
So the idea for regenerative medicine
is that we should be looking for triggers
for ways to communicate to the cells
what structure they should be building,
not trying to micromanage the process the whole time.
And so I have to do a disclosure here,
because David Kaplan and I are scientific co-founders
of a company called Morphosuticals Inc.,
which seeks to now take those discoveries
and move them into mammalian.
And so we're doing this now in rodents,
hoping to learn to do organ regeneration,
and ultimately, of course, the human patients some day.
So I wanna switch a little bit to this other model system,
these planarian, and as I've told you,
the planaria are amazing.
They're so good at repairing body damage,
they do this continuously, they're actually immortal.
There's no such thing as an old planarian,
they continuously replace dying cells.
And as a result, individual worms are basically immortal.
And the amazing thing about that
is that when you cut them into pieces,
each piece needs to know what it's missing
and what needs to be rebuilt.
So that anatomical control
that makes them cancer resistant and immortal and so on
needs to be able to always recognize
what part needs to go where.
And so typically it's 100% reliable.
If I amputate the head and the tail
and I take this middle fragment,
it will give rise to a perfectly normal one-headed worm.
Now, one of the interesting things that we found
is that there's an electrical circuit in this fragment
that determines how many heads
and how many tails it's supposed to have.
That's the memory, the memory is literally electrical.
And so what we can do is we can take this one-headed animal
with normal transcriptional profile.
So the anterior genes are in the head, not in the tail.
And when you amputate this guy,
he gives rise to a two-headed worm.
This is not Photoshop, these are real animals.
Why would I just told you that it's 100% fidelity?
Why would it give rise to a two-headed worm?
Well, that's because what we first did
was to use drugs that target ion channels
and the gap junctions to reset the electrical pattern memory.
This is normal.
This is what the fragment normally has, one head, one tail.
We can reset that to say two heads.
And you can see it's kind of messy
where the technology is still being worked out.
But we can reset this pattern to be two heads.
And then when you cut, then it makes a two-headed animal.
Now, here's the really critical part.
This electrical map is not a map of this two-headed animal.
This is an electrical map
of this perfectly anatomically normal one-headed animal.
It's a latent memory,
meaning it doesn't do anything until we injure it.
And when you injure it,
that's when the cells consult this map
and realize they need to make two heads
and that's what they do.
So a single body, a single one-headed planarian body
