You have genes turning each other on and off,
they make effector proteins,
there are local interactions in terms of physics,
and then eventually this magical process of emergence
where complexity arises from lots of simple local rules.
Now, this is certainly true
when there are many systems
where complexity arises from simple rules,
but this is not the end of the story.
And in fact, this is, I think,
just not even the major part of the story
because what we see now is that this process
is not simply feed-forward emergent.
If this final form is deviated from its goal state
by injury, mutations, teratogens, whatever,
what will happen is that feedback loops will kick in,
both at the level of physics
and at the level of genetics,
which will undergo various other actions
to try and get back to the state.
So this is very much, in the cybernetic sense,
this is very much a goal-directed system
that regeneration,
regulative development, metamorphosis,
all of these things are trying to get
to specific regions of anatomical morphospace.
They exert energy to do so,
and they have diverse competencies,
more than just pre-wired kinds of behaviors.
They exert various competencies in order to do that.
Now, this is, on the one hand,
this is nothing too new.
Biologists are well aware of feedback loops
and homeostatic kinds of loops like this.
So pH, temperature, and so on.
Of course, we know cells do this.
But the interesting thing about this process
is that the set point for that homeostatic process
is not a scalar, it's not a single number.
It's not just pH or metabolic level.
It is an anatomical descriptor.
So it's a shape.
So that leg will continue to regenerate
until a correct salamander leg has formed.
So in some sense, it is a descriptor
of a complex multicellular anatomy here
that's driving this thing.
And so this whole kind of odd view
of looking at these systems as navigational agents,
as opposed to just emergent physics and chemistry,
makes a very strong prediction.
It suggests that if there is an explicitly encoded set point
somewhere, then we ought to be able to find it.
So find the physical mechanism of that encoding.
We ought to be able to decode it.
And so to understand, to be able to read it out.
And we ought to be able to rewrite it, to re-specify it.
And that's what we've been doing.
And I'll show you how that works.
One of the sort of conceptual implications of this
is really important.
It means that if this is true,
then we have the ability on a biomedical level
to rewrite that set point
without having to change the machine.
In other words, the amazing thing
about your thermostat in your house
is that you can change the set point
without needing to rewire the thermostat.
The hardware stays exactly the same,
but you can make it do new things.
And computers, of course, are reprogrammable.
And that's the beauty of it.
You can run multiple things on the same hardware.
Currently, molecular medicine is all about this portion.
That is, if you want to make a change here,
we have to figure out which genes we would need to,
let's say CRISPR to make that change happen.
And in general, moving backwards,
this is an incredibly difficult inverse problem
that's going to limit the applications
of CRISPR and genome editing technologies,
because in general, you cannot reverse this.
We have no idea what genes to change.
If you wanted a salamander with three-fold symmetry
instead of bilateral symmetry, genes would you change.
We have no idea.
So it would be really nice if it were true
that cellular collectives had a set point.
You could change the set point
and it would then build.
You wouldn't have to solve this terrible inverse problem.
So how does the brain handle a goal-directed navigation
in its problem space?
Well, of course, it's got this hardware
where individual cells have these little ion-channel proteins
that enable the cell to reach a resting potential.
And those potentials are propagated to their neighbors
through these gap junctions, this electrical network.
And that electrical network, that hardware
allows a certain set of behavioral software where,
and here you can actually see the readout in this group
that this amazing video of the electrical activity
in the living zebrafish brain.
And so neuroscience is committed to this idea
that all of the cognitive content of this system,
of this mind is encoded in this physiology
and in this electrical activity,
that if we were able to read and understand,
basically decode,
and this is what people work on neural decoding,
if we could decode this electrical activity,
we would know what the memory is, the goals,
the capacities of the system are.
So the good news is that this amazing architecture
of this hardware and software is extremely ancient.
In fact, it's as old as bacterial biofilms.
Most cells have electrical connections
with each other, all cells have ion channels
that set their electrical state.
And what you can do is you can run
a very parallel kind of research program
using all of the techniques from computational neuroscience
to try and decode the information processing
of the body cells as they try to solve anatomical problems.
And here it is parallel to this brain scan.
This is a frog embryo putting itself together.
And you can see, we can now image all the electrical states
as this happens and try to decode them.
So the isomorphism is very strong
because here what you have here is the DNA
which determines the micro level hardware.
This becomes an excitable medium,
which has the ability to have certain electrically
implemented the information processing tasks.
And what it does is it controls,
it makes decisions at a large scale decisions
to control muscles to move you through three-dimensional space.
That same architecture exists in your body.
It's extremely ancient,
both evolutionarily and developmentally.
And what it does is use the exact same kind of tricks.
So the DNA specifies the channels,
but then you get this excitable medium
that is able to have memories and decision making
at the level of the network.
And what it does is issue commands
to all kinds of cells, not just muscles,
and those commands move your body configuration
through morpho space.
That process takes you from the shape of an egg
in an early embryo through progressive stages.
And if you're a caterpillar further through metamorphosis
to become a butterfly and so on.
So the exact same thing,
what evolution does is pivot the same trick,
this ability of electrical networks to process information
and to integrate information
through different problem spaces
starting off with metabolic
and then moving forward into anatomical
and eventually behavioral
and eventually linguistic in the case of humans.
So we developed some tools to study all of this.
So here's a time lapse movie of the frog embryo.
This is done using a voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye.
So this technique was developed by Danny Adams
to help characterize what the cells are saying to each other.
We also do a lot of computational modeling
to link to the molecular biology,
what ion channels and pumps and gap junctions
are responsible for these things.
And I wanna show you two kinds of patterns.
So this is, we call this the electric face.
This is one frame taken from a voltage movie
of a frog embryo putting its face together.
And what you see is that long before the genes turn on
to actually become, to actually regionalize
and then implement the face anatomy,
you already can read out the pattern memory
that tells these cells what to do.
Here's where the mouth is going to go.
Here's where the eye is going to go.
The other eye will come later to, you know,
the placodes out here, this pattern is already there.
We know this pattern is instructive
because if you move any of this,
and I'll show you in a minute how we do it,
the gene expression moves in and the anatomy moves.
We'll show you that.
So this is a normal pattern
that's required for face development.
This is a pathological pattern
that occurs when you inject the human oncogenes
into an embryo.
Eventually they'll make a tumor,
but before that tumor is histologically apparent,
you can already see from the cells
aberrant voltage signature
that they've disconnected
