Let me see here.
OK, can everybody see my slides?
Yes, yes.
Perfect.
OK, thank you.
So if anyone is interested afterwards in reaching me
or finding any of the primary papers, the data sets,
the software, everything is at this website.
So what I want to talk about today
is this idea that pre-neural bioelectrical networks
underlie a kind of somatic intelligence.
And I want to talk about the implications
of this for regenerative medicine,
but also for evolution and some things like that.
We can start by thinking about Alan Turing, who
needs no introduction.
This is the forefather of computer science.
And he was very interested in intelligence,
in different embodiments.
He was interested in what is fundamental about intelligence
as aside from any one particular implementation
and in the basics of computing and so on.
But he also did this really interesting early work
on morphogenesis, the idea of the generation of pattern
from chemical signals during embryonic development.
And so one might ask, why would somebody
who's interested in intelligence and in computation,
why would they be interested in studying morphogenesis?
And I think Turing, although he didn't write explicitly
about this, I think that being the genius that he was,
he saw deeply that these are the same problem.
And I think fundamentally, this is a very important idea
that developmental morphogenesis and intelligence
are really the same problem.
And here's why.
We oftentimes, there's this idea that there are,
let's say, collections of ants and termites and bird flocks
are kind of collective intelligence.
And then people think about, well,
is this really an individual?
Is it really a collective intelligence?
How do we think about it?
But then they say, well, those things
are maybe controversial, but I am a true centralized
intelligence, right?
I am a single being, I'm a centralized intelligence.
And of course, this isn't correct
because we are also made of parts.
So our brains are a collection of cells.
We are all walking bags of cells, basically.
And this is the sort of thing that we're made of.
This is a single cell.
This is called the lacrimaria.
And this is, of course, an independent organism.
This is not a human somatic cell.
But all of our cells were once independent living organisms.
And so you can see the high level of competency and autonomy
that this little creature has in addressing
the problems on its own scale, so physiological, metabolic,
things like that.
All of us made this amazing journey
across the Cartesian cut.
We were all once a quiescent oocyte,
so just a single cell, where people would say, well,
that's just physics and chemistry.
There's no cognition there.
It's a chemical system.
And then eventually, we end up being something like this,
which is a complex organism with behavior,
and maybe even something like this,
which is a very complex, has human level metacognition
and will make statements like, I am unique
and I have mental properties that don't exist
in other creatures and so on.
And so the key thing to realize is that this journey
is incredibly slow and gradual.
The developmental biology offers no sharp lightning bolt
to the left of that line,
we were just chemistry and physics,
and then boom, after this, now you're a cognitive creature.
I mean, there's no such thing in developmental biology.
It's a slow, gradual process.
And so we really need to understand
how the scale up of cognitive capacities
happens during this process,
of course, on an evolutionary timescale,
but also on each of us on a developmental timescale.
And this connection between information in the brain
and information in the body can be really seen
in the plasticity of certain biological forms.
So here, for example, is a planarian.
So this is a flatworm.
They have two interesting properties.
One is that they're smart,
and so you can train them for specific memories,
for specific behaviors, and they regenerate.
So if I amputate the head off of this planarian,
the tail will sit there and eventually regrow a new head.
And so this is something that McConnell discovered
in the 60s, and then we later confirmed
using modern automated techniques.
If you train a planarian to recognize these little
bumpy disks as the place where they find food,
and then you cut off their head, which contains their brain,
the tail will eventually regrow a new head,
and that new animal will show behavioral evidence
of recall, he will still remember the information.
So these memories not only are potentially stored
outside of the brain, but also imprinted
onto a completely new brain as it develops.
So you see this ability of information moving across the body.
You see the conciliance of information about shape,
about anatomical shape that we have to rebuild
that the head is missing, we have to rebuild it,
but also restoring this cognitive information.
So these are really, really quite connected.
That plasticity, that ability to recover personal identity,
and by the way, if you're interested in philosophy
and the question of personal identity,
and the question of what happens
if somebody makes a copy of me, are they also me?
What happens to the individual?
Here, you can do this in planaria, right?
You cut them into pieces and every piece
will have the original information.
Now, who's the original, right?
It's kind of a philosophical puzzle.
But this plasticity exists in vertebrates as well.
So this is a frog tadpole.
So here's the brain, here are the nostrils, the mouth.
And what we've done is we've produced the tadpole
with no primary eyes, but we did put some eye precursor cells
on the tail and they form a perfectly good eye,
and that eye connects to the spinal cord.
And we show using this device that we've built,
we show that these animals can see quite well.
So we can train them on visual tasks,
even though this eye does not connect to the brain
and it's not in the head.
So that plasticity, and you didn't need thousands
of generations for this to evolve,
that this architecture is already ready
to be scrambled in this way
and still have adaptive function.
And that has huge implications for evolution.
So the interesting thing about biology
is that we are all multi-scale systems,
not only structurally, so we all know that we're made
of organs, tissues, cells, and molecular networks,
but actually functionally at each level,
these layers solve various problems in various spaces.
So they're competent to solve different types of problems
in different action spaces.
Now, and we call this the multi-scale competency architecture.
Now, what do I mean by these problem spaces?
Well, we are, and many animals are very primed
and very good at recognizing agency and intelligence
in three-dimensional space.
So medium-scale bodies moving at medium speeds
through space and doing intelligent things,
it's easy for us to recognize that.
But it should be clear that when we look at various systems
and assign to them some kind of estimate of their intelligence,
we're really taking an IQ test ourselves
because we're not very good at recognizing
intelligent behavior in other problem spaces.
So for example, imagine that you had an innate feeling
for your body chemistry, the way that we have vision
and hearing and so on.
Imagine if you could feel your blood chemistry.
I think it would be very easy for us to recognize
the workings of our liver and kidneys and so on
in physiological space as different kinds
of intelligent behavior, meaning problem-solving behavior
with different levels of competencies.
So the spaces that we deal with are physiological space,
the space of all possible gene expressions.
So this is a transcriptional space.
And my favorite, which is morphous space, right?
This is the space of the different parameters
that establish different anatomical shapes,
like these different head shapes.
So I'll give you, we're gonna spend most of today
talking about problem-solving in this anatomical space.
But I wanna say one thing about transcriptional
and physiological spaces, just to give you an idea
of just how clever our cells really are.
So this is a planarion.
This is what that flatworm that I talked to you about.
And what we found is that if we expose this planarian
to barium, a solution of barium chloride,
what happens is barium is a non-specific
potassium channel blocker.
So the cells can't pass potassium
and that makes the cells very unhappy.
And especially in the head where there's lots of neurons
that want to transfer potassium,
their heads explode, their heads literally explode overnight.
And if you leave them in the barium,
what happens is that in a week or two,
