can store one of two different representations
of what a correct planarian looks like.
I promised you at the beginning
that if we have this homeostatic loop,
you have to store the set point somewhere.
Somewhere you have to say what the correct information is,
how does it know what's correct?
This is how.
That information is stored in electrical memories
that we can actually now read out and edit and write
to some extent, much like people are trying
to instep false memories into brains.
So another kind of neat thing about this
is that if you're interested in the brain
and this ability, they call it mental time travel,
the ability to remember things
or imagine things that are not true right now, right?
So the ability of a system to store states
that are not actually true right now,
that time shifting, that's what you see here.
This electrical memory is a counterfactual.
It is not a true description
of what my anatomy looks like.
It is a counterfactual memory of what I will do
if I get injured in the future.
It's a memory of, it's basically a plan for the future.
It's a very primitive way of doing counterfactual memories
that might be the kind of evolutionary precursor
to complex counterfactual thought in brains.
Now, why do I keep calling this a memory?
Because if you cut these two-headed animals
and you take this middle fragment,
with no more manipulation,
it will continue to form two-headed animals.
Now, keep in mind, there's been no genetic change here.
We haven't rewritten the genome.
The hardware is exactly the same.
What we've done is given it a brief physiological stimulus
that altered the memory of what the set point
for this regenerative process is.
So the question of what determines the number of heads
in a planarian is kind of subtle.
It isn't the DNA.
What the DNA does is produce an electrical machine
that by default, stably settles on the memory
of a one-headed structure.
But it's rewritable and it has memory.
And once you rewrite it to a two-headed state,
that's what it keeps.
And we do have a way of actually turning them back
so we can take these two-headed animals
and rewrite the memory back to a one-headed.
So here you are.
You see a video of what these guys are doing.
This is all the properties of memory.
It's long-term stable, it's rewritable,
it has conditional recall, which I just showed you,
and it has discrete behaviors.
And so what we are doing now,
and we're very interested in collaborations
and Shreya and I are collaborating
on these kinds of things,
is to take what we know about the state space
of these electrical circuits
and map them to anatomical outcomes,
which are attractors in this morpho space,
and understand how that process gives rise
to these kinds of amazing abilities,
such as if the system is deviated, it comes back,
it recovers missing information.
These are all things that people who study
artificial neural networks
and connectionist models of cognition,
these are all things that people study.
And so we want to kind of integrate that field.
Interestingly, this is not just about head number,
it's also about shape.
So if we perturb the electrical network in this guy,
when he tries to regenerate his head,
you can get the same genetics
to form a flat-headed Pifolina,
or a round-headed S-Mediterrania,
and the distance between this guy and these species
is about 100 to 150 million years.
So what you can do by changing the electrical pattern memories
is to select between attractors in the state space
that normally correspond to other species.
One way that could have happened
is genetic assimilation.
So a bioelectric, environmentally induced bioelectric change
that causes head shape change
that then eventually ends up being assimilated
into the genome as changes in ion channel properties
and whatever.
So evolution might use this very rapid,
it's akin to the Baldwin effect
when learning becomes eventually assimilated
into genetic behaviors.
Evolution could make use of this very powerful mechanism.
And in fact, and so it's not just the head shape,
it's the shape of the brain
and the distribution of stem cells
is exactly like these other species.
So you're literally making ahead of another species.
It's not even about existing other species,
you can make shapes that don't belong to any species.
So the morpho space of possible shapes is quite large.
You can make the spiky forms,
you can make this cylindrical kind of three-dimensional thing,
you can make combination forms.
Evolution doesn't use it,
presumably these don't make very successful worms,
but the cells, the hardware,
the genetically specified hardware of a wild type genome
is perfectly happy to form these other forms.
So what we're looking for is a full stack kind of a framework
in which we can start from knowing what the channels
and pumps are that determine the hardware of the cells,
but then we can now start to understand on a tissue level
the changes in the bioelectric large scale properties,
getting to what does that mean for organ specification
and ultimately getting to a kind of a symbolic algorithm
of the decision-making at the organ level
about where heads and tails and all the other organs go.
And we have this,
we've started work on this bioelectrical simulator.
So Alexis Pytoc has made this amazing system
that allows us to actually simulate some of this stuff
and link chemical networks
with the electrical downstream electrical information processing.
I want to show you one quick success case
of using such a thing for biomedicine.
This is a tadpole brain, forebrain, midbrain, hindbrain
in animals that are exposed to teratogens like nicotine
or other alcohol, other kinds of teratogens.
There are severe brain defects.
And we said, okay, could we make a computational model
of the bioelectric pattern of a normal brain
and show what happens to that pattern
under various deformations.
So we made this pattern
and it showed us some really interesting features
of why things go wrong.
And what that model was able to do is then say, okay,
if that's what happens to the electrical pattern,
could we, what we need to do to fix it?
So which channels and pumps could be open or closed
to get back to the correct bioelectrical pattern
even though you were exposed to this nasty teratogen.
And in fact, we did this with even a genetic change
which is a mutation in notch.
So notch is a very important neurogenesis gene
in the absence of improper notch function.
The forebrain is missing,
the midbrain and hindbrain are just a big bubble.
The animals have no behavior.
It's a very severe defect.
What the computational model was able to do
is pick out a channel for us,
specifically this HCN2 ion channel.
We had some interesting properties
and the model, the computer model was what told us
that if we turn on this channel,
the bioelectric state should basically come back to normal.
And when we did that,
and you can do this either genetically
or through a couple of drugs
that are already human approved drugs that target HCN2,
they, these animals went back to normal.
They had this, so these animals have the same notch mutation
but you can see the brain structure is normal,
their IQs are indistinguishable from controls.
They get their behaviors back.
So this is an amazing thing.
Not only are we now to the point
where a computational platform
can actually predict therapeutics
by quantitatively asking
what does the bioelectric change need to be?
And then what drugs do we have
that will induce that change?
But this is an example of fixing a hardware defect.
So the notch mutation,
fixing a hardware defect in software
by brief stimulation of the physiology with a drug.
So now I'm not arguing that that's gonna be true always.
There are many hardware defects,
let's say enzyme mutations and so on
that are not fixable this way.
But it is remarkable that some genetic defects
can actually be repaired this way.
So what we are working on is this kind of a system
that basically,
and you can play around with this thing a little bit
although it's very early stage still,
the idea is that you should be able to take your knowledge
of the correct and the incorrect state,
run it, the model will tell you
which ion channels and pumps can be targeted.
We know what the drugs that exist
