they regrow a new head
and the new head is completely insensitive to barium.
So we asked a simple question transcriptionally,
what is different about this new head?
Why does this new head not mine the barium?
So we just compared all the genes that are expressed
in these guys versus these guys
and we pulled out a very small number of genes.
And now here's the amazing fact is that
a planarian never encountered barium in the wild.
So there's no evolutionary history for barium exposure.
There's no reason why they should have a built-in mechanism
for expressing certain genes when they encounter barium.
This is a completely novel problem for them.
And so you can think about this as being stuck
in this nuclear reactor control panel
where every 20,000 genes or however many they have,
every knob is one gene and it's melting down.
You're faced with this terrible physiological stressor.
How do you know which genes to turn on and off
if you've never seen this challenge before?
And the amazing thing is that you don't have time
to do a random walk.
You don't have time for gradient descent.
The cells don't turn over very fast.
The way that you might in the bacterial colony
that you might see that,
they find their way through this transcriptional space
very efficiently given a completely novel challenge.
So when we don't know how this works,
it's very interesting to think about how this works.
So overall, what we are interested in is diverse systems.
So not traditional brain-y systems necessarily,
but all kinds of other things,
whether evolved or designed,
that are able to navigate different problem spaces
with different degrees of competency.
So all the way, and this notion
of having different degrees of competency in navigation
was described by Norbert Wiener and colleagues
in a very kind of cybernetic scale
of thinking about how behavior could be controlled.
And what they wanted to do was establish a kind of continuum
with some good transitions here,
all the way from completely passive behavior,
which you would just say is just physics,
all the way up to what we see in humans,
which is metacognition and things like that,
and all of the steps in between
in a way that was not tied to specific architecture.
So we're not saying brain, we're not saying neural network,
we're not making any assumptions
about what the substrate is.
What we're saying is there are different kinds
of behavioral competencies with respect
to reaching specific goal states in that space.
And when he says teleology, he doesn't mean magic
and he doesn't mean human level.
I know that I know what my goal is,
it just means the ability of a system
to reach a specific goal despite perturbations.
And these are the different levels of sophistication
for different systems that might be able to do that.
And what that allows, this kind of approach allows us
to do something interesting,
which is the goal of my framework,
which I call TAME, TAME for technological approach
to mind everywhere.
It allows us to think about using the same tools,
a very wide range of potential agents.
So yes, familiar subjects of behavioral science
like humans, like mammals, other mammals,
birds, maybe octopus,
but also really weird creatures,
like colonial organisms, whole swarms,
synthetic new life forms.
I'll show you one at the end of this talk.
Artificial intelligence is that might be
entirely software based
and maybe someday exobiological agents
because all life on earth is basically
an N equals one example of evolution.
So we want general purpose tools
to be able to recognize competencies.
I'm not saying anything about consciousness.
At this point, I'm not saying anything
about human level intelligence.
I'm saying basic problem solving competencies
at different levels of sophistication
that might exist in unfamiliar guises.
And here's my favorite example of that,
which I would like to talk about.
We all start life as a collection
of embryonic blastomeres
and then eventually you get this.
So this is a cross section through a human torso.
So you can see all the amazing order that's here, right?
So all the tissues and structures are all positioned
and everything's in the right size, the right orientation,
the right position relative to each other.
Where is this amazing amount of order encoded, right?
Where is the pattern?
Now, people are often tempted to say,
well, it's in the DNA, but we can read genomes now
and we know what's in the DNA.
What's in the DNA is a description
of the micro level hardware,
the proteins that every cell gets to have.
The DNA doesn't directly say anything
about this large scale structure.
The structure arises from the behavior of individual cells,
from the physiology that drives individual cells
to interact and create something like this.
So we're interested in that collective behavior.
We're interested in how groups of cells know what to make
and when to stop building.
As workers in regenerative medicine, we'd like to know,
well, if a part is missing, how do we recreate it?
And as engineers, we wanna go further and say,
well, can we push these cells to do something else
besides what they normally build?
Can they build something completely different?
And so what I wanna talk about is the idea of the endgame
of the, how I see the endgame of this whole field
is with this notion of an anatomical compiler.
So imagine that in the future,
you will be able to sit down in front of a computer
and draw the plant or animal that you want.
Not at the level of molecular pathways,
but the level of functional anatomy.
You're just gonna draw like here
as this three-headed planarian.
And if we knew what we were doing
and if we had a mature science of morphogenesis,
this system would be able to compile that description
into a set of signals that would have to be given to cells
and cause them to build whatever you wanted them to build.
To be super clear,
this anatomical compiler is not a 3D printer.
We are not talking about micromanaging the position
of all the cells and creating a 3D printed ear
or something like this.
Or the anatomical compiler is a communications device.
It is a way to convert from an anatomical specification
to the signals that have to be given to a collective of cells
to get them to build something the way
that they normally build other things
in development and regeneration.
Why do we want this thing?
Why do we want this thing?
Well, all problems of biomedicine
with the exception of let's say infectious disease
boil down to the control of collective cell behavior.
If we had a way of convincing cells
to build anything in arbitrary structure,
we would automatically have the solutions to birth defects,
to traumatic injury, to cancer, to aging,
to degenerative disease.
We could make synthetic biobots on demand.
All of these things would be solved
if we solved this simple problem
of how do you communicate to a collective of cells?
What do you want them to build?
Now, you might think that,
so why don't we have this yet, right?
We've had all this incredible advance in genomics
and molecular biology.
Why don't we have something like this?
Well, I just wanna show you a very simple example
of a problem.
Here's a basic axolotl larvae, baby axolotl,
they have legs.
And so this is a salamander, they have legs.
Here is a frog larvae.
This is a tadpole of a Xenopus frog.
They do not have legs.
And so in our lab, we can do something
which is make a chimeric embryo.
We call it a frog-a-lotl.
And I can ask a simple question.
Do you expect the frog-a-lotl to have legs?
And you have the genome.
So we have the genome for the axolotl.
We have the genome for the frog.
Can you tell me if a frog-a-lotl
is going to have legs or not?
And if it does have legs,
are those legs gonna be made entirely of axolotl cells
or will they have some frog cells included?
So unfortunately, we have absolutely no
conceptual framework that will allow you
to derive that information from the genomics.
We just can't do it.
And so where we are today is here.
We're very good at manipulating molecules and cells.
So pathways, genomic editing, those kinds of things.
We're very good at that.
But we're really quite a long way
from control of large-scale structure and function,
which is really what we want.
