So what I would argue is that where we are
in biomedicine today is here.
It's where computer science was in the 40s and 50s,
where you had to interact with the machine
at the level of the hardware.
So CRISPR, pathway editing, single molecule approaches,
protein design, all of that stuff,
all the most exciting advances in molecular medicine
are around the control of the hardware.
And we know very well
from the information technology revolution
that that's just the beginning.
And that what we really want to understand
is how to take advantage of the higher-level affordances
of living bodies and really exploit
what ends up being the agency of cells and tissues
as they solve various problems.
And so that's, I wanna talk today
about those kinds of approaches.
So I talk a lot about competencies and intelligence,
and so let's give a definition.
I like this definition by William James,
which is intelligence is the ability
to reach the same goal by different means.
So what we're talking about here is, again,
when we say goal, we don't mean something
that's a second order.
I know what my goal is.
I mean, humans have that ability, but you don't need that.
It's the ability of some system to exert energy
to reach the same state in various means.
Now, why would there need to be various means?
Because there might be interferences of some sort
that prevented from doing the thing that it normally does.
And so the degree of intelligence
and the type of intelligence that a system has
is how it handles those interventions.
What abilities does it have to get to where it needs to go
in its problem space, despite various interventions?
Somebody once, well, I wish I could remember who said this.
Somebody had this great quote where intelligence
is a continuum that makes the difference
between two magnets trying to get together
and Romeo and Juliet trying to get together.
The difference is simply in the degree of sophistication
of things that are going to happen
when you try to prevent them from reaching their goal.
In one case, very little sophistication at all.
All they can do is try to minimize the energy.
And in the other case, lots of sophisticated tricks
to try to get there.
So let's talk about this kind of intelligence
that's related to biomedicine in particular.
So development is incredibly reliable.
And so we know that an embryo most of the time gives rise
to a normal, very complex body, but it isn't hardwired.
And so if you cut this embryo in half,
you don't get two half bodies.
You get two perfectly normal monosygotic twins.
And that's because in this morphogenetic state space,
the ability to reach its goal, this ensemble of states
that we consider a normal, healthy embryo,
you can get there from a variety of starting positions.
And in fact, as I'll show you momentarily,
by avoiding various local maxima,
avoiding various problems and doing new things
to get to where you need to go.
So here's one very sort of well-known example.
This is a salamander known as the axolotl.
These guys regenerate their limbs, their eyes,
their jaws, the portions of their brain and heart.
And here's what the limbs look like.
If you amputate anywhere along the axis of the limb,
it will regenerate.
The cells will grow exactly what's needed,
no more, no less, and give you a complete, perfect limb.
Now, the most, many amazing things about this,
but the most amazing thing is that they know when to stop.
These cells are growing.
No individual cell knows what a finger is
or how many fingers you're supposed to have,
but the collective makes exactly the right number of fingers.
And then it stops when,
when a correct salamander limb has been completed.
And if you deviate at that point
and you cut off some fingers or whatnot,
it will continue to grow
and it will only stop when the correct pattern has completed.
So if you're into computer science,
this looks like some sort of means and analysis.
And basically it's an error minimization scheme
that allows the system to detect deviations
from a stored set point and work towards that.
Now salamanders aren't the only ones that have this.
Human liver, for example, is highly regenerative.
Even the ancient Greeks knew that.
I have no idea how they knew that.
Human children regenerate their fingertips.
Deer regenerate large amounts of bone,
of vasculature and innervation every year.
So there's some mammalian examples of regeneration.
The other example.
But here's one of my kind of favorite examples
because this illustrates a very interesting point
that you can think about as top-down control.
So this is the cross-section
through the lumen of a salamander.
And what you can see normally is there's about eight
to 10 cells that form this kind of structure.
And one thing you can do here
is that you can make these cells larger,
much, much larger.
And when you do that, when you make them larger,
the system adjusts and a smaller number
of these large cells make the same shape lumen.
And now you can do the most amazing thing of all,
which is to make the cells incredibly large.
And when you do that,
just one cell will wrap around itself like this
and form the exact same structure.
And this is remarkable for a couple of reasons.
One of them being that this is a completely
different molecular mechanism.
In the first case, you have cell-to-cell communication
and delta-naught signaling and all these things
that are important in forming a tubular genesis.
In this case, it's cytoskeletal bending.
And so in the service of a large-scale anatomical goal state,
meaning that having a tubule of the right shape and size,
different molecular mechanisms,
different underlying molecular mechanisms
are being called up to reach that state.
So if you're into neuroscience,
this is very familiar because in cognition,
you have this exact example where you have large-scale
kind of executive control and goal-directedness
that has to feed down into the individual circuits
and eventually to muscle voltage states
to execute the problem.
It's a top-down control and it happens here
in morphogenesis in this amazing example.
So this is a different example
that we discovered a few years ago,
which really shows you the need to look for competencies
in unexpected places.
So here again is our tappel, here are some eyes,
the nostrils, the mouth is back here, the brain.
And these tappels have to rearrange their face
to become a normal product.
And so it was thought that this process is very mechanical.
So every normal tappel looks the same,
every normal frog looks the same,
and all then you would have to do is somehow the genome
would just program a set of hard-wired motions
where every part of the face would move in the right,
in the right direction, the right amount,
and then you get a normal frog from a normal tappel.
So we tested the hypothesis,
and so I think this is really critical
before making any sort of assumptions
about what the level of competency of a system is.
You have to do experiments.
And so we asked, we did this experiment.
We said, I wonder if it really is hard-wired.
What we did was we made these called Picasso tappels.
So basically they're scrambled.
Everything's in the wrong place,
the jaws are off to the side,
the eye might be on top of the head, everything's scrambled.
And what we found is that these animals
make largely normal frogs.
Why?
Because all of these organs will move around
in novel unnatural paths,
and in fact, sometimes go too far
and actually have to move backwards,
they will all move around
until they get to a correct frog pattern,
and then they stop.
So the genetics does not specify
somehow a set of hard-wired rearrangements.
What it specifies is a system that is able to reach the goal
despite completely abnormal unexpected starting positions.
And this is very important.
Evolution, and I think this is a more general claim
that I would make,
is that evolution doesn't just make specific solutions
to specific problems.
It actually creates hardware
that implements a problem-solving machine
that is able to exert problems
of various kinds of information processing
to reach regions of anatomical space,
physiological space, and so on,
despite novelty.
I'll show you a bunch of examples of that.
So what we started thinking about then was this.
I mean, this is the typical story
that appears in the textbooks,
which is the process of morphogenesis is this.
