for all these different channels
and it should basically suggest electroseuticals.
So combinations of drugs to address different kinds
of problems with cancer repair of injury,
birth defects and so on.
And so just for the last couple of minutes,
I want to say a couple of quick things
about coming back to this idea of let's zoom out
from the biomedicine and just think about
what we've learned about intelligence and cognition.
We know that this thing has competencies
in a certain very small cognitive light cone.
Basically local environment is what it cares about.
It has cells have a little bit of memory going back,
a little bit of predictive power going,
looking forward in the future,
but basically both spatially and temporally,
the goals that the system pursues are very small.
What evolution did is create a set of policies
for electrical networks that allow them
to pursue much bigger goals.
So this collective pursues the goal
of having this anatomical state
and you can deviate it and we'll do its best
to get back there.
Individual cells have no idea what a finger is
or how many you should have, but the collective does.
And it's the network that's able to do this.
But it has a failure mode, the failure mode is cancer.
And when cells disconnect from this electrical network,
this is glioblastoma, they basically roll back
to these individual cell behaviors
and their light cone shrinks, okay?
And so we can think about the scaling up of cognition
from individual cells that have a very small
spatiotemporal cognitive capacity
to larger networks that have more computational capacity
for memory, for prediction,
and for integrating spatially information across a distance.
This has a very clear testable biomedical prediction,
which is that, well, here's our tumors induced
by human oncogenes.
What we can do is we can say,
we're not gonna change the hardware,
we're gonna leave the hardware defect in,
we're not gonna remove the cells
or try to fix the genetic mutation.
What we will do is force these cells
to be in normal electrical communication with each other.
And so when we inject the oncogene,
what we also inject is an ion channel
that despite what the oncogene gets does,
which is to electrically decouple the cells,
it will cause them to stay connected.
So this is the oncoprotein here,
it's very strongly expressed.
In fact, it's all over the place,
but there's no tumor.
This is the same animal, there's no tumor
because the physiology overrides the genetics.
Some hardware defects can be fixed in software.
So if you connect these cells to the group,
they will not have the metastatic single cell goal
pursuing behavior,
they will work on a collective project,
making nice skin, nice muscle underneath all of that stuff.
So you can see how these ideas of cognitive scaling
lead directly to novel therapeutic approaches
that had never been tried before.
So the last two minutes or so,
I just wanna show you one amazing kind of example
of cellular competencies and plasticity.
We wanted to know whether cells
could reboot their multicellularity
and what their novel goals would be
if we took them out of their normal context.
And so this is the work, I have to do a disclosure.
Josh Bongard and I have founded this company
for computer design by robotics.
This is all, everything I'm gonna show you
is done in collaboration with the Bongard Lab
and Doug Blackiston and my group did all the biology
and Sam Kriegman did the computer science aspects.
So what we did was we,
so Doug takes these frog embryos,
he takes the skin cells from the top,
these are cells fated to be epidermis, so skin,
and we dissociate them and then just pipet them down
into this little depression.
What might they do?
Well, they might die, they might spread out,
they might form a two-dimensional monolayer,
many things they could do.
What they do instead is, whoops,
they overnight, they coalesce together like this
and they form this little thing we call a xenobot.
Here it is, we call it a xenobot
because Xenopus laevis is the name of the frog
and it's a biorebotics platform, so it's a biobot.
One thing these xenobots do is they swim, they move.
How do they do it?
They have little hairs called cilia
on the outside of their bodies.
Normally the cilia are used to redistribute mucus
down the body of the frog,
but here what they do is they row
and the ones on this side row this way,
the ones on this side row that way.
And so the thing moves on its own,
it's completely spontaneous, we don't pace it,
we don't activate it, it's on its own.
They have a wide variety of behaviors,
they can go in circles, they can patrol back and forth,
like this, just keep in mind, this is skin,
there's no neurons here, there's nothing else.
They have some collective behaviors,
so these two can interact with each other,
these are resting doing nothing,
this one is going kind of on a long journey.
Here it is navigating a maze, so it moves forward,
it takes the turn without bumping into anything
doesn't have to bump into the opposite side,
it takes the corner, and then at this point,
due to some internal dynamic,
it turns around and goes backwards,
came from no control by us,
this is completely spontaneous behavior of these guys.
If you image the signaling, this is calcium signaling,
it's very, this is the kind of thing you would see
in imaging brain activity.
And so we are now, of course,
analyzing using information theory approaches,
what the integrated information is inside
or in fact, between, are they communicating?
We don't know yet, well, that remains to be determined.
They can regenerate, so if you cut them in half here,
so think about, you can cut them almost in half,
look at the amazing force that it takes
to fold this thing up like that,
so they do regenerate,
and then here's the most surprising thing of all,
which is by modeling, so Sam and Josh computationally
modeled this and basically evolved in an AI kind of environment,
used evolutionary algorithms to evolve different kinds
of xenobot shapes and simulate their activity.
And one thing that we learned is that they like to make piles,
they like to find loose material and collect it into piles,
and so we tested whether that would be true of real bots,
we gave them a bunch of loose material,
so these are cells,
these white things are just loose skin cells,
and we found something incredible is that,
yeah, in fact, they run around and they collect these cells
and they collect them into piles and they compact,
and the piles become the next generation of xenobots,
which then mature and go on to do exactly the same thing,
so they just continue to reproduce copies of themselves.
Now, a couple of interesting things.
First, the only reason this works is because the xenobots,
like us and like evolution, are working with an agential material,
they're not working with passive particles,
they're working with an agential material
that also knows how to cooperate with each other
to become something interesting, meaning another xenobot.
So this is taking advantage of that agential capacity
of the bots.
The second thing is that this is Von Neumann's dream,
a robot that's able to go out and make copies of itself
by finding objects in its environment.
So this is a very early form of that.
There's no strong heredity here.
All the bots look the same, but they do replicate,
and so this is, we call this kinematic self-replication.
We've made it impossible for these guys
to replicate in the normal froggy fashion,
but within 48 hours, they are able to do this.
And so the last thing I wanna just discuss
is the kind of evolutionary implications of this.
This is a normal frog with a normal frog genome.
When you ask what does this genome encode,
it's common to think while it encodes a frog,
but actually what it encodes is a little machine
that can, under normal circumstances,
it has a default frog developmental stages
and normal tadpole behaviors.
But under other circumstances, it can be a xenobot.
It can form the xenobot.
It has its own developmental stages.
Who knows what this is?
This is a completely novel thing.
And then they have their own different xenobot behaviors.
Now, we didn't add anything to go from here to here.
We didn't add any new genes.
We didn't add synthetic circuits,
no weird nanomaterials.
All we did was engineer by subtraction,
meaning that we removed some other cells
and we asked what is the native behavior of these cells?
Because if you look at a typical embryo skin,
you would say that what does it know how to do?
