at least saw it and read about it. I probably read some of it and all of it. I didn't get
super deep into it. Well, so the lying post, the EA has a lying problem post was a demonstration
that there's at least some norm, but I guess also that the norm was not sufficiently widespread,
at least allegedly not sufficiently widespread to have already been the case.
Like it's such that it wasn't obvious to multiple people that it's very defective,
very non-cooperative to just intentionally deceive. Yeah, I see what you're saying.
Okay, so we are almost out of time. Stephen, you had some last minute question?
Yeah, last minute question for you, just a double whammy one. Is there anything that you want to
share that we didn't ask about or that you wish that we had and that ties into, is there anything
that you want to plug slash share that we didn't ask you about? That goes without saying too,
that any links you want us to share, you can send us, we'll put on the website too.
I didn't think about this in advance. If anyone is in the Bay Area, there are community
talk nights sometimes at the Seafarm Area office.
Do they share an office? Oh, have they always shared an office?
At least for a couple years, yeah.
Huh, today I learned. I for some reason thought they were like,
I guess, doesn't matter, we're running out of time.
So, is there a website or a link or something that you can share with us to how people can
find out about when those are? Last half of my head, I'll check Facebook.
Oh no, there's no rush. You'll send it to us and we will have it posted in the show notes.
And you have a couple of weeks before this goes online anyway, so yeah, take your time.
I guess as long as we're wrapping up, time-wise, I really appreciate you spending all this time
with us. It certainly, I think, is a very much appreciated use of your time and I know that,
you know, you have stuff to do and this was, thanks again, I guess I'm expressing a lot of
gratitude and I'm doing so poorly. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you for having me on.
This was fun. Any final things you want to say before we go?
Nope, that seems good. Okay, well thanks for coming on and for
bearing with us with our technical issues last week.
Yes. And we'll hopefully talk to you again sometime in the future.
Great. Thank you. Awesome. Thanks again. Bye-bye.
