Without further ado, I want to welcome Daniel Spachenberger.
I think if there was one person where most people here
were like, we need Daniel Spachenberger
or we need a specific person on, then it
was really you, some super, super happy that you're coming
on and embracing us with your sense of making ability.
And today here, I think there's a lot to cover.
I'm not pretending that we can cover everything in an hour,
but I'm hoping that we can at least
squash the surface and point people in the right directions
if they want to follow up.
And yeah, I am hoping that I think initially when we spoke,
we were thinking of taking this kind of all matter
and talking about the generator function of x-risk
and kind of like what are the, I guess,
like more abstract and long-term consequences from this.
But I think in the interest of time,
we have decided to kind of like, you pick us up
where we are right now, kind of like, what are the threats
that we should be unraveling more.
And then we see kind of like how that affects much
of the generator functions of existentialists
that you're so worried about.
So thank you so, so much for coming on today.
And it's such a pleasure to have you here.
I think you can unmute yourself whenever you want to as a co-host
and interrupt me.
Thank you so, so much for joining.
I would love for you to maybe kind of like fill us in
by just kind of like taking us on a tour of what
are kind of current developments where we are not
paying enough attention to and where the general conversation
may be not paying enough attention to
and that may have major implications down the line
and that we shouldn't be missing right now.
Thank you, Allison, for inviting me here.
This is my first of these to join,
even though a number of the people that you've had on before,
people I respect and our friends and colleagues,
I actually just want to acknowledge first
what an awesome thing that you're doing here.
I look at the list of people that you've had on in the last 10
weeks and only 10% of these people here for the first time.
It's really kind of an incredible online university
and a good use of this time.
So that's really neat.
Because I haven't been in the previous ones
and the poll said people were feeling generally better,
many of them, and you were talking about existential hope
and making opportunities.
Can you just kind of clue me in briefly
what some of the major themes of the COVID related
make things better opportunities are
that this group has been following?
Yes, for sure.
OK, so there's one I think that we may be even pursuing
a little bit after we close out the hive mind, which
is kind of like the incredible opportunities that are currently
popping up for health extension, right?
Because suddenly the whole world is worried about their health
and a lot of the kind of biotech sector money that
was already kind of like available beforehand
is really kind of like funneled into vaccines
but some of that work could later be pivoted also
into general more health and health extension efforts.
So that's on the one hand.
Meanwhile, a lot of people are out of work
and kind of that may slow innovation down
in the long run quite significantly.
Then I think on the other hand what
we talked about were a few glimpses
into the promises of the virtual world, right?
We have everything from telemedicine in India
to kind of like this really kind of flourishing
of global online universities and such
that may actually make it much harder
for the general monopolies of the kind of broken educational
systems that rely on a lot of foreign student payments
to survive that may make it much, much harder for them
to still have this almost predatory hinge on the system.
So it was a lot of what opportunities in the virtual space
are possible right now, now that VR is almost becoming
as good as a brain-computer interface.
And then we also talked a little bit
about the different ways in which culture is shifting
and which people are now kind of stepping up
and really fantastic ways in which people are kind of like
willing to tap into gray zones, gray legal areas
to save lives in which people are kind of like stepping up,
proposing legal defense funds for those who are in those gray
areas and saving lives for those people who are blowing
the whistle and in the sense in which kind of like decentralized
communities are coming together, then a few technologies
that may help us do that much better in the future,
especially from crypto commerce, but then also how many
of those technologies are currently being kind of like
exploited by more totalitarian forms of government
and all the ways in which kind of like, you know,
let's say more predatory states are kind of like seeking
the nooks and crannies in which to expand their power into,
right, and so we usually tackle kind of like always the risk
and opportunities in those areas.
And I mean, then last week we focused more on the kind of global
scale and in the ways in which currently, you know,
we have a ton of people that are really, really good at sense
making, we have a ton of people that are really good at modeling,
metaculous, FHI, they all came out with fantastic modeling efforts,
but it's just so happens that no one's really listening, right?
We have really good prediction tools already,
people are working on them, but it still kind of feels that
they're not really kind of like effectively informing action yet,
but, you know, there are a few ways, like, you know,
we talked about Dow democracy, about future keys and so on,
but they're just not really entering the mainstream discourse.
So, like, my main fear is that there are actually a lot of
opportunities available, but a lot of those people,
like I think many of us that are thinking along those lines
are just not being insulted.
So, one kind of choice that many people do have is that either
we build this kind of like parallel operating system
and hope that we can eventually perform a genetic takeover
and take over the system that is still in the fact,
or we can try to reform, but it just doesn't really seem like
there's much opportunity to put it in right now.
So, those are, I guess, a few things that we've been talking about.
I could go on the laundry list, but then I think I would be
running the salon. I definitely don't want to be doing that.
Yeah, get it. If we can't meet in person, can we meet online
and are there unique opportunities to being able to meet online
if healthcare is fucked up? Can we use it to reform healthcare
at large if education gets totally disrupted rather than have,
you know, just a generation that has major gaps in their education?
Can we reform education?
I would, like a classic example right now is the food supply chain
is we've basically, by stopping travel to stop the movement of the virus,
we also stop the movement of fertilizers and pesticides
and key supply chain dynamics that have led to this massive
culling of animals and throwing dairy away and tilling food back into the soil.
So, we have basically excessive supply that can't get where it needs,
so it's getting ruined while the demand hasn't actually gone down.
It's just we can't route it properly and the perishability
and the thin margins are such that we're actually driving hunger at scale.
So, the food supply system for give or take two billion people just got fucked.
And so, then we're like, okay, well, having a supply chain
that has that many steps of vulnerability and it isn't a good idea.
So, if we have to fix it right now, and we do because otherwise
tens of millions or hundreds of millions of people don't go hungry peacefully,
right? So, you start to get a movement from a virus to broken supply chains to hunger,
to violence, to war escalation. So, let's say we're looking at
the fact that Nigeria has the largest food insecurity population and population density
in the world, 26 million give or take people without food security and that their food system
just got completely damaged and what happened here, plus their economy because they're based
on the price of oil, right? Like almost their entire economy is based on the price of oil,
which just had this massive Saudi Arabia, Russia oil shock kind of thing.
And you look at what that starts to look like in terms of both.
So, Boko Haram is increasing and local gangs are increasing and then insurgency movements.
So, do we start to see a massive exodus Syria style from Nigeria?
Well, after Syria and the damage that happened to the EU, where do those people go?
Because the EU doesn't want to take them, right? And it's under such massive fracture pressures
already after Brexit and after COVID that some places take them and others don't.
What does that do kind of for fracture pressure? So, this is when you can start to see how like
a cascade of events like this goes, we take the damage to the food supply that's happened in India.
India and Bangladesh are particularly interesting because of the population density multiplied
by total population that is near food vulnerabilities. And so, you start to get
a damage to the food supply system there and the total number of people that can be affected is
just unprecedented, right? It's just astronomical. And we were looking at this before COVID from
climate change. So, remember that you're started off with Australia burning, right? And while there
were a number of factors, there was environmental mismanagement that led to too much downed wood
because they had prevented small fires and not dealt with the forestry well. And because
groundwater had been used up irresponsibly and whatever, there were a number of factors,
but increased dryness and heat was one of the major factors. So, then we started looking at
climate change mediated, not just do we have a climate that takes out the ability for people
to live as a whole, which we're not going to get, which is why CSER and FHA and whatever don't look
at climate change that much, but they should when they factor cascade effects, which is,
do you have a climate dynamic that leads to like, for instance, this upcoming summer in
India and Bangladesh are estimated to have 52 Celsius heat waves independent of COVID? Well,
that is enough to actually destroy most of their staple crops. And so, when you don't have food
stores, meaningful enough food stores, you can destroy the staple crops and you have people
that are right on the edge of basic needs being unmet, then what happens? So, then do the people
in like, without groundwater and without food and 52 Celsius heat just die peacefully, right? Or do
they start to try to get access to the limited resources and then violence emerges over limited
resources? So, where do those violence lines cleave along? Well, they cleave along existing
tension lines. So, does that look like Hindu-Muslim tension lines? Sure. And so, then does that look
like India-Pakistan tension that starts to mount? And so, you start to see the cascade that happens
when you have systemic fragility of this kind. So, now we still have that upcoming set of heat
waves to deal with in India on top of the fact that we already just had an unanticipated crop
failure ahead of that. Okay. So, now we're talking about how do we rebuild things? Does anybody want
to rebuild this food supply system the way that it is? Like, no, it's the most fucking terrible
thing you can imagine, right? Because if you're going to do factory farming, nobody wants that near
them because it's gruesome, right? It's environmentally gruesome, it's ethically gruesome,
it's like nobody wants those jobs. They have to usually be the jobs are largely run by
immigrants who have no other option. And so, if you're going to do gruesome factory farms and
they have to be in the areas that will accept them, then you have to ship them to far distances,
then you also have to have a very fragile supply chain that can break from something like COVID.
So, let's say we want to make our supply chains less fragile. That also means we want to increase
locality. If you want to increase locality, you have to have types of agriculture that people
are okay seeing, which is actually really good, right? Because the ability to ship the
horror somewhere else, right? The open pit mining or the mountain top removal mining or the factory
farm or the landfill that we can ship the horse somewhere else where nobody has to see it,
depend on lots of shipping and everybody thinks that life is pretty cool around here because
