but that they also would lead to organized crime and they would lead to
tragedy of the commons and different types of, um, places where it was
incentivized to do things that really created a shitty quality of life for
everyone.
So there was an idea that there was to be a state that had some kind of,
uh,
ability to regulate the most predatory aspects of markets.
Um,
and so there was this idea of law and a monopoly of violence to be able to
institute law that was based on jurisprudence,
which is based on ethics and which is why the,
the founding documents are kind of existential ethical documents.
And that's actually where the role of the church came in,
which was we didn't want a single church having dominion over that,
but the idea that there was.
Phyllis saw the church and the academy, right?
That there were deep considerations of what is a good life that is informing
ethics. It's informing jurisprudence.
It's informing law to be able to bind the predatory aspects of markets while
facilitate the helpful aspects of markets simultaneously.
And kind of the way I see it is that the markets,
the predatory aspects were designed to be bound by the state,
but the state was to buy designed to be bound by a educated and engaged
populace and where the state was of foreign by the people.
And otherwise you get the watchdog issue where you have maximum incentive for
the market forces to capture the regulatory forces and then just get crony
capitalism, but in order for, and then the people are actually bound by the
market, which means accounting that they can't ask for rights.
They aren't willing to take responsibilities for,
and they can't, you know,
implement shit where the, where the accounting doesn't work out.
And if you kind of think of that, there's a really nice balance in it,
but it's easy to see how asymmetries of power emerge where even though there's
aggregate symmetry between supply side and demand side,
there's more coordination on supply side than there is on demand side.
So you start getting asymmetric information,
warfares that lead to a less educated and plus just natural human weakness at
scale that lead to the population not checking the government and then the
state force, the market forces capturing it.
So I think there's some stuff that can be done to actually reverse this
institutional decay and make a better version of this thing.
And I'm actually very interested in that.
I don't think it meets the sufficiency criteria longterm.
And so then the question of what is a more visionary longterm distribution
of power and choice making look like.
I can say that I don't know because we haven't implemented it and the ideas
that I have about it, I don't know if we'll work,
but I have thoughts on this topic that have to do with one of the ways that
I frame it up.
If you think about,
if you think about kind of Jeffrey West's analysis and scale and the
correspondence of that with kind of Dunbar society limits and the idea that
in general intended groups of people, whether they're companies or
countries get diminishing collective intelligence and productive capacity
at scale beyond give or take in evolutionary tribal size,
then that ends up creating a basis for smaller groups to be more intelligent
relative to the larger group.
And you both have an incentive for defection and the capacity to defect
and get away with it because the larger group becomes stupider and can't do
the appropriate accounting.
So you end up getting niches for sociopathic predatory behavior on this
system.
Whereas if you had linear development or super linear development of collective
intelligence as a function of scale as you go above Dunbar number,
you could have the group be smart enough to actually notice and bind the
sociopathic defections where everyone would do better by being,
by participating with the collective intelligence system and defecting
against it.
Now exactly how do we instantiate that?
Again, I think that goes, it's a conversation I would love to have,
a conversation I'd love to have with you.
That takes a much longer chunk of time.
Okay, wow.
I realized that like the line of questions is just starting to ramp up.
Oh man, okay, how do we do this best?
I mean, would you be able to say them for one more question and then we cut it
out?
Sure.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yasha, maybe you do one more question and then maybe Luke and Daniel,
I can convince both of you to come on and talk it out on the next one
together.
Okay.
Yasha, I'll search for you.
Yasha.
Okay.
I'm meeting you now.
Good evening.
Good evening.
Thank you, Daniel.
This was amazing.
It was very right range.
I think that the, how to find the best system question seems to come down to
something that might be eventually contradictory,
like how can we combine the benefits of competent totalitarianism with the
robustness and self-actualization and nonviolence of a well entrenched
society.
And it's on top of a very diverse and pluralist population in society and
cultural traditions.
So that is a super difficult question and probably won't be able to solve it
tonight.
So a very simple question maybe in the end,
what would happen if we take the present situation where the FDA is blocking
testing and is together with the CDC and some other institutions,
what is their record responsible for the deaths of something like more than
90,000 Americans that would have died?
How can we solve that in a situation caused by forking the FDA?
What would happen if California, for instance,
forks the FDA and the federal agencies will look very grimly at us.
But at the moment,
the situation seems to be a weakness of the federal government that would
allow to renegotiate the distribution between federal and local power and create
therapy techniques.
Yeah.
I will also say I don't know the answer to this.
We'd need to look in at more depth,
but a few thoughts that come to mind.
I think states can do totally fucked up stuff and have people who are very power
seeking at the level of states,
even at the level of cities,
but they don't have like states don't have nukes,
even though nukes might live in a state the federal government does and they
don't states have a national guard,
but they don't have weapons of mass destruction and they don't have the same
types of massive power consolidation.
So I think the 10th amendment is very important.
And I think the movement to an increased like when we talk about things that could
get worse or better right now in the U.S.
The idea that states become more relevant is actually a possibly very good idea
with while having the factor for.
Right and left states moving in further apart directions and increased tension
between them.
So we have to factor for that,
but that's mostly engineered.
That's mostly narrative warfare engineered and could be addressed,
but I do think taking it beyond the state down to the city level is better
because cities are real things and states are fictions just like nation states
or fictions like where the boundary is is was determined in a war or a trade
or whatever,
but cities are based on the actual goods and services and transportation
dynamics that need to be within a particular space of each other.
So I think and this is what Jeffrey West was showing in scale was that cities
actually do have productive capacity that can be linear or super linear as a
function of population.
So I think having more governance at the level of cities is very interesting
and then having coalitions of cities network network dynamics between cities
cities and the surrounding metropolitan areas pretty much defined by
transportation dynamics and.
There are obviously also tricky things where like let's say we're dealing with
a pandemic where let's say an area closes off its border and figures out how
to become a green zone, but the other areas adjacent to it don't.
Well, it doesn't actually get to reopen its border and re issue life without
the other areas doing that or in a one person can cause the infections again.
So this is a place where the rights of individual places and their responsibility
to each other are just so profoundly connected,
which is why this is such a big deal.
I think one, I think there's some stuff that's fucked up about the way tests
have been blocked and rolled out.
I think I think there's a lot about it, but I also think that there's a lot
that's really bad about the tests like I don't think the amino assays are
useful for test and trace or really diagnosis for suppression at all there.
It takes too many days from the time you were exposed in our infectious for
the antibodies to show up and the even even if you have one that had very
low false negatives at that point.
And then there's too much that isn't known about what the antibodies actually
mean yet or how long they last or the decay rate on them or any of those things.
So I think we would need high sensitivity PCR that could be very,
very widely utilized to be able to have testing really become very meaningful
as a suppression strategy.
And so we're not waiting for antibody response in the blood.
We're being able to detect presence of the virus in the mucoso.
So, you know, nasal and oral swabs.
And I think we could roll out specific areas could roll out those types
of diagnostics and be able to show the effectiveness of it mostly commercially
and with local government participation.
And I think if it showed enough effectiveness.
So like we're talking with some people in Las Vegas because Las Vegas is very
focused on reopening because they're losing like a billion dollars a week
per casino or whatever staying closed.
So they really want to reopen, but Vegas by itself reopening could cause the
infection to never go away in the world because people come from all over touch
everything together in a closed air environment and circulated air and then
fly back to the rest of the world.
But they also have all the money to actually do the thing properly.
And the local government gets enough money from them.
They want to really participate.
So they could roll out HEPA filters and PECO filters and nanotech surface
treatments and detection mechanisms and get the security on them right.
And points of contact rapid turnaround PCR diagnostics and actually be able
to invest the capital to show the effectiveness to then be able to
lower the economies of scale and the questions of if it's true or not to
then get them implemented other places.
So I'm interested in some of those approaches.
Thank you so, so much for joining today.
I mean, even though you stayed on for 45 minutes longer almost then
intended, I think we've again just like very special service.
So thank you so, so much for actually joining.
So bye-bye everyone.
See you tomorrow.
