are super bureaucratic and and the decision-making processes are slow no that's not the only reason
all right thanks I don't know whether you read by Robin Hansen came out with this post a while
ago on group A and group B alliances globally and basically making a point that after this
the kind of like economic world order will be largely defined by those people that
by those countries that have got their shit together and can trade uh like among
you know
You can see that between houses, so currently,
there's a lot of people who don't have access to it.
So, you know,
there's a lot of people who don't have access to it.
So,
there's a lot of people who don't have access to it.
So,
you know,
and those.
You can see that between houses.
So currently,
that.
So currently.
All right.
We didn't hear much.
Okay, that's fine.
Well,
I was just going to say there's a really interesting article by
Robin Hansen where he's basically talking about group A and
group B alliances and they currently like on a geopolitical
scale,
this is kind of shifting in the sense where many countries that
were previously group A lines or countries that were kind of
like more high up in the from like geopolitical order are kind
of like moving down because they're not really not getting
back together.
And the U.S. may also move into,
into a B alliance by which it may not be safe enough to be in
kind of let's say the group A alliance,
which can have flow of labor and flow of goods amongst
themselves.
And if that so happen,
and I see that kind of like on a, on a local level where,
you know,
if you have different parts of people that all have different
safety standards and some of them are keeping their shit together
and it's working really well,
you know,
that trans isn't transitive in the sense that,
you know,
you,
you,
they're,
they're certain performing and they're not all kind of like
interacting well together.
And I'm wondering on,
on a global level if,
if the same holds true in the sense that there will be kind of
like,
which,
you know,
we'll trade more with each other and,
in which perhaps like a lot of employers will move and,
and we'll kind of like entice their employees to move into,
and that won't be the same parts in which they have previously
been living.
Right.
What that may mean on a geopolitical level.
Yeah.
I mean,
we see a lot of alliance shifting already.
Right.
We see
um,
the Italy's curve finally starting to flatten was when China came in
and gave it a bunch of aid,
which included surveillance drones and other things.
So,
um,
and you see
EU and EU adjacent countries thinking that you would support them and
didn't.
Getting Chinese support or few cases,
some other types of support.
So massive alliance shifting.
We see even within the US,
the groups of states that are clustering.
So the,
the California, Oregon, Washington complex and the,
the seven state complex around New York and,
um,
I really feel that the US getting its shit together and being able to
help lead alliance efforts is pretty critical and we'll make a big
difference to the way the world plays out.
And because even though I can't say the US is actually a republic,
it at least,
it at least has that vague idea of having some values or ideals
around a republic around democracy.
Whereas when we look at China and we look at Russia and we look at Saudi
Arabian, we look at Iran and most of the other power players,
they don't even,
that's like a talker.
See is really fully embraced and I don't think,
um, exponential tech empowered autocracy is a world we want to go
towards.
And I think that if those are the players that are offering aid to the
rest of the world and the US isn't because the US is so internally
fighting over its own power because it has,
and this is how big empires die, right?
And democracies make it two to 300 years and we're almost at 250 years.
Um, there's so much power here that you have so much internal infighting
to see who gets that power that you just kind of lose awareness on
what's actually happening in the world and that you're losing relative
position to it.
And it's not that I want the US's position relative to the world to be
something in particular,
but I think that its ability to help participate with alliance efforts
for the values of roughly democratic type western civilization values,
um, having a place I think is super important.
And it's one of the things that I most want to see people engaged in is,
um,
efforts that decrease internal bipartisan warfare and create more,
um,
it more effective national governance that can then do international
alliance building better.
Thank you.
Okay.
We have two more questions from, uh,
Luke Nosek and from Yosha Bach.
Luke, I'm going to meet you.
So, so Daniel, um, you had, uh, you had said,
I'm not sure if I'd misheard you.
I think it's becoming a little more clear with your more recent,
uh, comments, something about, um, empowering people or,
uh, or distributing power.
Um, and, uh, and then you recently alluded to the public or democracy
and these things being good.
Um, can you be more specific about what the,
the problem is with power and, uh, who, uh, should,
you know, who should actually organize it so that we could do things
effectively like do international treaties.
Cause it doesn't seem like, you know,
warring parties in a democracy is a sensible way of doing it.
That's very obvious.
But what do you specifically believe about, um,
how to organize power?
We should have it and so that, uh,
you could effectively run the world and kind of like,
good things happen.
Uh, big question.
Um, uh, could go in a bunch of directions.
Do you mean like, do I think, uh,
moving towards a positive global singleton is what we should aim for?
Or is there some kind of future of democracy that we should aim for?
Or like, how do we make America better currently?
Um, and obviously when we talk about power,
there's power in the markets, which has achieved a certain way,
power in the state, power in religion and culture.
Um, yeah, I would like to be able to address where the question,
what you're interested in better.
Can't hear you currently.
I think Allison, you have to unmute him.
I'm muted for half a second.
I'm muted. There we go.
There you go. Okay.
I'd like you to be as idealistic as possible.
So none of this triage, you know, or incrementalism stuff, just, um,
um, or what do you think is possible, uh, for, uh,
for humans down in, in ideal state?
I'm not trying to get a sense of what, you know,
what your ideal, you know, political or social organization is.
I've got it. Um,
and I actually think all of those different realms are quite important
because they, um, there's, there's sort of, um, uh,
orthogonal ways of looking at, um, at the whole thing.
Some, uh, some governments can be structures that it's, it's,
there's, there's one that's autocratic over the other ones,
but, um, and many times we've had them overlapping in, in, in, in power.
You've had religious power concurrent, um, with,
you had the Catholic church and you had all the, all the kings,
uh, in the, in the middle ages concurrently.
You'll forget that with this system.
Yeah.
I think the distribution of power between those different types of
institutions was actually problematic and important.
Um, and usually became progressively more problematic.
Um, but like when you think about in the US,
the separation of the state and the market,
why we didn't just have a pure libertarian model.
We had the idea of a, of a kind of liberal democracy,
but also the separation of a state and a church.
Um, then we say liberal democracy and kind of leave the role of the church
out, um,
and mostly focus on market and, uh, and state.
And yet interestingly,
you read all of the founding father comments about the need for people to
have some kind of moral education as well as a, um, you know,
formal civic education for anything like democratic process to work.
The way I think about that, and I'll mention the longer term one,
um, but the way I think about that briefly is.
The reason that a state was put in place in this,
in the kind of US experiment, um, was it was seen that markets could
solve most problems or solve a lot of the problems in terms of innovation
and efficiency,
