we put all the ugly parts somewhere else. That is actually one of the things that drives systemic
fragility. So, if we start saying, well, how do we increase food security? Well, one aspect is can
we start increasing locality in food systems? Well, doing that will also require making food
systems that are better for soil, better for animal welfare, better for the environment,
better for human health on and on, right? So, and better for preventing future zoonotic pandemics
that occur in places where you have a bunch of sick animals in a tight environment. So,
it is important to remember that right before China had SARS-CoV-2 emerge,
they had to kill a humongous percentage of all their pigs because of a swine flu that emerged
because of terrible pork-based factory farming and they had another major bird flu outbreak.
India had a bird flu outbreak because factory farms are terrible and they should not exist.
So, that is an example of something that just broke that we have to rebuild because the consequence
of not rebuilding it is too destructive for the world and we need to rebuild it differently.
There is a bunch of other examples like this. So, pretty much the way I see COVID is that it was
just a large enough global issue to set off the cascade effects of systemic fragilities
that would have been set off by something. And so, now the major issues that we are looking at are
we, you know, like, let's say we look at, so we just talked about food supply,
let's say we look at the economy. Well, we already had a situation where the percentage
of global GDP that went to debt servicing was so high that the economy was fundamentally
dead and broken, right? And we needed to restructure it in some deep way because you can't
have that much of total GDP going to debt servicing. Well, as a result of COVID,
GDP dropped everywhere and debt went way the fuck up. And we were already at an existential level
of GDP to debt ratio. So, it's like, okay, so what are the economic effects of trying to keep
propping that system up? And if you play them out, they're terrible. What does it take to fix it?
Can we actually redo global financial monetary policy, central banking policy?
What is the biggest type of step we could actually make in this place?
I think it's important to note, you know, you were mentioning something that might be able to
decrease predatory opportunism in certain places like we've heard education.
I would say since COVID has been happening, predatory opportunism has increased more than
I have ever seen it in any other time or that I can think of in history. Because when the market
gets more volatile, there's a lot more money to be made if you know how to make it. There's a lot
more money to be lost. There's also a lot more money to be made because there's more movement
occurring. So, if you're the one that is at the top of the power law distribution of intelligence
and ability to actuate, then you're going to do very well. And we saw that, right? We saw some
people get stupidly rich during the Great Depression relative to everyone else and also get
more total asymmetry of wealth as at most people are getting poorer. So, the volatility increases
asymmetries. So, when you look at all the private intelligence companies that when people leave
CIA and NSA and whatever that's where they go to work with those capabilities, who contracts them?
Who are their main customers? Well, it's financial institutions are the biggest customer. There's
plenty of other ones, right? But hedge funds and private equity funds, whatever. So,
in terms of who was getting briefings in December and then early January, this is why you sell
senators selling stock in January regarding, oh, this is actually a big fucking deal and this
is going to affect the world. If I run a hedge fund and the market is near the top of what the
market has ever been at and can't keep going like that forever. And I see that there's about to be
a major set of hits. Even if I hypothetically have a lot of money and a lot of power and a lot of
access and I could try to use that to get the CDC and the WHO to do the right thing to save a lot
of lives, that's not my job. And it's not what my incentive is. My incentive is to say, fuck,
this is the time to sell all my stocks at the top of the market. I'm going to get to rebuy them at
the bottom of the market when they are radically decreased in price and consolidate the fuck out
of the total power base. I'm also going to short the market on the entire way down. I'm going to
start shorting airlines and whatever else it is. And because of asymmetric information, asymmetric
intelligence, I'm going to know about oil shock issues and food shock issues and whatever to be
able to know which commodities to short and which ones to put options on ahead of time. Then
there were a lot of pools of capital like sovereign wealth funds and family offices that have big
pools of liquid capital that could not be well deployed recently because we had negative interest
rates on bonds. And so it's like, I can't just leave my money sitting somewhere and have it
make money and negative interest rates are because the market was so broken because so much of the
money was going to debt servicing and the global wealth inequality was so much that you had to
basically just keep pumping free money, which is what negative interest is, to keep the system from
collapsing. And so, and you didn't have very high volatility. So now those huge pools of sovereign
wealth and liquid capital are like, awesome, we get to buy up infrastructure for pennies on the
dime and consolidate power a lot. So the people who have most access to intelligence and actuation
capacity have been busier than ever during this time, not relaxing. If you have less to do,
you know that you are not at the power law distribution at the top of the power law distribution
because those people are seeing this as a maximum opportunity space, but it's the opportunity to
be able to say, oh, you know, lots of volatility, and it's not just volatility in markets. It's also
awesome. This is a great way to roll out the surveillance tech we were wanting to roll out
to get all of that data for surveillance capitalism or to increase the power of states,
if that's our particular thing to do. So that's, and now people will go for it, right? Or we can
at least force it through. Or situations where people won't be able to tend to elections in the
same way they would have previously been able to because of health issues is a great time to try
and manipulate elections. So, or if I'm China and I'm trying to advance the Belt and Road
Initiative, and there were some sticky places that weren't moving through, and it happens to be
that I'm really the only manufacturer of PPE at decent scale in the world, the places that wouldn't
sign the Belt and Road Initiative before will now, if that's the only way that they get to not die of
the plague, is that we come help them out and also not die of poverty as their economy crashes.
Or let's say that we're Russia wanting to get the Eastern Alliance Baltic state back and kind of
weaken NATO forces in EU. So just kind of think about all the power players. They're all motivated
to do the shit they were already doing. But during an equilibrium phase, it's much harder to change
the total relative power. During a time where you break up the equilibrium, you can have much more
radical changes of power coming out the other side. Think about the US coming out clearly the
world leader of World War II not going in that position and Britain coming out radically down
regulated. Everyone who is sophisticated in the game of power is seeing this as that type of thing.
So I would say the fragility has set off like we have increased, meaningfully increased risk of
violence in the US and in other developed areas at the social level of just how many people are
freaked out, right? Like they have very partial sense making in a world dominated by narrative
warfare and information warfare. So nobody feels like they can actually make real sense. So they
just do tribalism stuff. And so they're, and it's tricky, right? So they see I'm a right oriented
person. I don't know particular people that have died, but I also live in a low population density
area. And everything on the news is totally suspect as fake news. And I'm afraid of the idea
that the corruption and conspiracy and whatever would be happening to control things and actually
go down and look at my local hospital and there's nobody fucking there. And it's empty. And I see a
few other things like empty hospitals. No, of course, if you actually have a pandemic going on,
you will try to stop elective processes. And so you will have doctors going out of business and
empty hospitals while also having a real pandemic. But there's some sophistication and nuance to be
able to make sense of that whole thing. And if I don't have it, the partial perspective is pretty
compelling, right? So then I'm like, Oh, fuck, they're trying to take our freedoms away. We founded
this country based on the right to bear arms and, you know, stand up against our government. So that
thing starts to happen, right? And, and then you see simultaneous to that black guy running, get shot,
protest happens, bunch of, bunch of black people doing a protest carrying guns, right? And so you
see the like, Oh, there's lots of sides that are at meaningful tension with each other, increasing
the signaling of violence. Then we see the actual violence increasing in, in certain areas, riots
that happened in London and whatever, and then very meaningful stuff in places like Nigeria. And
then we see bigger things like, I don't think most people pay enough attention. But when you
look at General McChrystal coming out a few weeks ago, saying, I'm going to be using advanced DARPA
technology to counter the fake news that Trump is putting out, people should pay attention when a
four star general who ran covert ops for the US military, whose job was to overthrow governments
from the inside using tools of narrative warfare, talks about using advanced AI semantic capability
developed by DARPA to go against the standing president, like, that should be a signal if people
are paying attention. Oh, what the fuck, that is closer to civil war. I don't know what signals are
closer, right? So you just start looking at all those types of things. And you look at the increased
tension and signaling regarding militarism between US and China, and on and on. So we could go by
sector, whether we're talking about the financial sector, the economic sector, movements towards
violence, grid security, and say, the existing risks that were there just got accelerated by
like a decade in almost all areas. Now, the question is, to come out the other side, not way, way,
way worse, requires dealing with all that, not just dealing with the virus, but dealing with the
second and third order effects that have already kicked off. And if we don't deal with that,
we will come out way, way worse. In order to deal with it, we have to do deep enough changes that
we will say, hey, we don't want to redo food supply this way or monetary policy this way. And we
could come out much better. But that requires that the people who are thinking about how to do it
better have to be as effective at making shit happen at a global scale as the groups that are
currently working on power consolidation. Yeah, I think, yeah, man, there are so many things.
I mean, one of the things, just like, you know, I think echoing word, like,
whipping up a few of the things that you mentioned, one of the things was like being developed
and vote initiative, right? Like, I think in the previous podcast or something, you mentioned
what what if China was actually tying that, you know, kind of like to the, you know, to the
to the condition of using their digital currency, right, then like many of the kind of like digital
currencies and like of the promises of freedom that we're excited about of them previously
would kind of like fall to the wayside then. Right. And I think the same is true when you
look at like, I mean, if I look on, if I think back of how this salon started and how kind of
like optimistic I was that there's a ton of opportunities to do an incredible amount of good.
And we've been thinking about this and I think really, really smart people are on it. And I
think about it and I'm talking about it. But meanwhile, it's like, if I actually look at what's
happening in the world in the meantime, it seems like things are just slowly getting worse and worse
a little bit like on a very kind of like, you know, personal level, like I was out in San Francisco
a few days ago and like, there were like street car like car races on the street, right? Like people
with motorcycles with cars racing out like multiple people like peeing in the park, the police
totally overwhelmed, like police every every five meters wherever I went, like people just like
totally wasted everywhere on the street. And I was like, wow, this is very different to like
the types of worlds that we're thinking about on a daily basis in those global salons. So, you know,
it's kind of like we had to see that delta between meanwhile, like it's kind of painful to see like
we're always thinking in ways in which the system could be much better. But like adjusting, like
we're not taking into account many of the kind of like just very real physical kind of like
physical constraints that are like that that are kind of currently making people move, right?
And I feel like the same is true, like on, you know, if we think about it on a global scale in
terms of what what may happen with oil, like one of the things that we've been talking about is
like on the one hand, it's it's it's somewhat great that all futures are negative, because for
ones we may be able to make the move to like renewable energy, but on the other hand also
totally fucking terrifying, right? Because that may mean like much much more likely that we enter
into like violent conflict between different powers, and especially with the US currently
realizing that we just have a chip in order on a global scale, right? Like we've never seen kind of
like nations kind of like an international order moving peacefully or like switching peacefully,
right? So it's like it's just seems like it's a total weird cognitive dissonance by which
you can dream up those really amazing changes that could be occurring. Meanwhile, things are
moving really quickly in all sorts of directions in really complicated ways with not only second
order effects, but like that's why I mentioned the currency like the, you know, potentially Chinese
kind of like maybe ordering something like, you know, the digital currency if they ever
kind of like enforce something like the development vote on many others. That's on the second order,
that's almost like a third order effect. So my question, so it's a long winded way of saying
there's there seems to be a ton of opportunity. There seems to be a ton of risk. It seems like
we're really smart people together often. And I'm also speaking about your circles that are
thinking really well about this. And you just mentioned how intelligent people within the system
are gaining could make a ton of money by gaming the system with the information that they have.
So what is kind of like the kinds of information that we could be using, and the kinds of kind
of comparative advantage that we may have in putting that to the table to create the
better worlds are not the worst ones of those. Something I was personally really impressed with
and I don't mean impressed in a good way, just impressed upon me when I first started
encountering the halls of power in the world more. So top of government and of finance and
like that is how few people there were actually really good thinkers.
They were smart enough to understand how to execute certain types of things,
not particularly creative, not particularly systemic, not particularly critical, but like
just basically smart enough, they were mostly ambitious, like super fucking ambitious,
and super hardworking, and slanted heavily in the cluster B direction.
Cluster B meaning DSM-5 personality disorders, specifically the power seeking ones that are
willing because like if you don't have something psychologically wrong with you for the most part,
those are really miserable lives to be continuously engaging with people that are trying to fuck you
over and stab you in the back and lie to you so that you can just get more power that doesn't
equate to meaningful quality of life and have no real relationships because the only people that
are interacting with you want something from you. Like there has to be something mostly
psychologically wrong with you to want to gain a lot of power. So the psychological dispositions
that are power seeking, you call it sociopathy, psychopathy, narcissism tend to be willing to
put up with the difficulties and do the fucked up things necessary to win a lot of win-lose games
and get to the top of the power law distribution of power systems. And sometimes you actually need
to not have complex thoughts so that you can avoid looking at the externalities you're causing and
that you can give plausible deniability even to yourself and to be able to just execute on
some simple things which is usually where more power comes from. So then I see people who care
more and have more complex thinking not want to do things that will cause lots of externalities
and think about what the quality of life in their short period of time being alive is and not
necessarily want to be engaged in those types of financial warfare and political warfare or
whatever all the time. And so they just don't ever get much power which also means they don't
influence things very much. So basically there is a disposition, there is a systemic disposition
that makes sociopaths and their like mostly run the world. And until we actually fix that we are
just on a movement towards self-induced termination. Well I mean there is this argument of like you
know why the worst rise to the top and all of like all of those arguments that I think are usually
really you know arguments against the consolidation of power right. And I think that you've in previous
podcasts and in your writing pointed to a lot of kind of like systems that are kind of like currently
being built in the crypto commerce space in which at least you could have better sense making tools
that would make that would make those kind of tendencies much harder. But you know I wonder
whether you know you're proposing that like should we reform or should we exit and build new?
I want to speak orthogonal to that question.
In first just addressing that question I would say there's there's roughly three
