about the picture of Bayes that we find on.
Oh, yes.
So you've told me that you don't think it is Bayes.
No, I'm almost certain it's not Bayes.
If you want to find the picture, just Google Thomas Bayes, click on images,
and you'll probably get several versions of it.
It was published in a book in the early 20th century, I think, I forget.
Stephen Stigler apparently was so excited about the picture
that I think he bought the copyright to the book.
But I analyzed the picture years ago as part of a contest
put out by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
And there was a picture of Bayes and the question was who was,
who is this man and when was he born?
And I won the contest by saying that it's not a picture of Bayes.
And the only thing we know is the birth year was probably 1701
because of the change in the calendar where New Year's Day started on March 25th.
In any case, why is it not Bayes?
If you look at similar portraits from the same era,
you find that the gowns that the non-conformist ministers wore
or the overcoats or whatever they called,
that they wore were quite tight to the chest.
That gown of Bayes is very flowing and it's very 19th century.
So the picture is anachronistic.
Plus the, he's not wearing a wig.
There's a picture of his father or painting of his father.
He's wearing a wig.
A complete contemporary was a guy named Philip Doddridge.
He was wearing a wig, a shoulder length wig.
And there's a contemporary,
approximately contemporary picture of Price.
And he is also wearing a wig, a fashionable but out-of-date wig for his time,
which was a wig that came down to about here with ear muffs,
something that looked like ear muffs.
So in that picture of Bayes, he's not wearing a wig.
His gown is anachronistic and his clerical collar is also anachronistic.
And that, again, as a 19th century look to it,
18th century collars would look slightly different.
So if you want to promote your business school with a good picture of Bayes,
you, in my opinion, you don't have one.
So there are some questions coming through.
Now, one is from one of your former students,
who's a professor at Cass Valley, Azimut.
He wants to know, what do you think is the future of Bayesian statistics?
It does seem to be now much more mainstream than it was, say, 30 years ago.
Yes. 30 years ago, it was the whipping boy of many statisticians,
probably because of Sir Ronald Fisher,
who is now out of favor for various reasons.
So it was the whipping boy for a while, but then it's actually, it makes sense.
It, in terms of inference, it makes sense.
Taking a current belief, collecting data about it, and then updating the belief.
And the reason why it can, is now becoming popular is that it was criticized for
the prior probability, the assumption of the prior probability,
is not being realistic, not being mathematically feasible.
But now with computing, you can come up with a nice model for your prior probability.
And calculate your posterior through what would, if we did it by hand,
enormous computing effort, but would only take a couple minutes using a good computer.
So it's really the way to think about things.
It's the proper way to think about what you're interested in making an inference about.
And now you have the computing tools in order to do it.
And I think it will take over.
Yeah, yeah.
Another question that's come through from Kamie Sharmstrong is,
I mean, what are your thoughts about our business school taking the name of Bayes?
I have two opposite thoughts.
One is it's a good move in that Bayesian statistics and Bayesian methodology
is at the forefront and probably used by an incredible number of people in the business
school. So it kind of describes one of the main tools that you use.
If you want to get negative about it, somehow you have a business school named after a minister
of the church, which doesn't seem for many people to go together.
And but he was a dissenting voice as well.
He was a dissenting minister, yes.
And he was a very logical thinking dissenting minister.
So in the things that he wrote, he was, when he made an argument,
it was always a very dispassionate logical argument.
So in the in the conflict with Barkley over the calculus, for example,
Barkley, his book refers to the infidel mathematician, possibly Edmund Halley.
But Bayes said right at the beginning of his book,
this is not just stick to the scientific questions, don't get into verbal abuse, essentially.
And so he was a dispassionate when he argued, he argued logically and dispassionately.
Another question has come through this time from Annie Spanergy.
And it's about about data and the importance of quality of data.
Now, I guess Bayes never thought about this, but clearly it's an important part of any application.
Bayes did think about it once. Thomas Simpson had written this paper about
error distributions. And so Bayes was asked to comment, I forget the exact details,
but he's said that the measurements you're taking is only as, well, one way to put it,
is the measurements you're taking is only as good as the measuring instrument.
So if there's a bias in the measuring instrument, then what you're, the inferences you're making
are not very good. Because Simpson's paper had been about how do you combine measurements?
What's the best way to do it? And the mathematics that he went through showed that the sample mean
was the best estimator. And Bayes was commenting that, well, it might not be if your measurements are biased.
That is interesting. So that he had thought about that as well as just in a way the mechanics
of the mathematics of his theorem. I'm going to go just go back to the Q&A list to see if we have any
other questions. Perhaps the final question and slightly lighthearted from Andre Spicer is,
what's the strangest story you've come across about Thomas Bayes?
The strangest story? Well, it was strange for me. Well, let me just give it as a,
there's nothing strange that I found about Bayes. He is such a nice obscure man that
very little has been found out about him. But my favorite story about discovering things about Bayes
was when I wrote my biography of Bayes, I needed some money to go to do work in some
archives in England. So I wrote a grant application to my university for sort of in-house funding.
And I was denied the funding because my proposal was too speculative. So I went anyway,
and I went to the Center for Kentish Studies because I knew that there was
a folder there of Stan Hope's papers that said papers to and from eminent mathematicians. And
I was hoping to find letters with Martin folks discussing why they should put Bayes up for
fellowship in the Royal Society. When I received the folder and opened it up, there was a dozen
manuscripts by Bayes that no one had ever seen since Stan Hope's death. So I sat there in the
library, stunned for about five minutes. I then looked through all the other folders and I found
his mathematical folders and decided to come back a year or two later to look at Stan Hope's
mathematics and everything else he'd done. And I had rejected this one folder that said
annotations on works of Chaucer. I couldn't figure out why the heck
Stan Hope was writing on Chaucer. Anyway, I just left it aside. Two years later, I came back,
went through all of the mathematical manuscripts, didn't find, well, I found material that I wanted,
but then I came across again, annotation on works of Chaucer. I said, what the heck? I'm going to
look at that, see what Stan Hope has to say about Chaucer. And it was annotations of works on chances
spelled with a C-H-A-U-N-C-E-S rather than Chaucer and the librarian had got it wrong.
And there I found Bayes' work on theory of runs. So my favorite stories are about my luck
in finding what Bayes. Well, that's a very good place to end, given that he was a probabilist.
So thank you very much, David, for speaking with us today for your fascinating insights into
the life and work of Thomas Bayes. Next week, the Food for Thought webinar speaker is Simon
Brocklebank Fowler, President of Firehouse Communications. Thank you, everyone, and we
look forward to seeing you next week. Goodbye. Thank you.
