Welcome, everyone, to this Food for Thought webinar about the life and legacy of the Reverend
Thomas Bayes.
I'm Stephen Haberman, Professor of Actuarial Science at the Business School.
Just as a way of background, you will all know that we're changing the name of our business
school to the Bayes Business School in September.
So what we're going to talk about today is who was the Reverend Thomas Bayes?
What do we know about him, his work, his life?
We know where he was buried, very close to our main building in Bunhill Row.
And what's the story of his famous theorem, which has had such a profound influence on
probability theory and modern statistics?
It's our immense privilege and pleasure to be welcoming Professor David Bellhouse, emeritus
professor at the University of Western Ontario in Canada, who's published extensively on
the history of probability and statistics, and has written a biography of Thomas Bayes.
So he's here to talk about Bayes, and we've got the usual format that our guest David
will speak for about 15 minutes, and then we'll open it up for Q&A.
So straight over to you, David.
Thank you.
Thank you for inviting me.
Let me start with why is Thomas Bayes important, or his theorem at least.
Briefly described Bayes' theorem is how do you update current beliefs or current knowledge
with new knowledge?
So that would be take your prior knowledge, go out and obtain data, and update the prior
knowledge.
So basically, that's the basic idea.
How Bayes approached it was very simply, you have a bunch of successes and failures that
you have observed.
What does that say about the probability of success?
And the only prior knowledge you have is you know nothing about the probability of success.
So his theorem was published in 1763.
Richard Price brought the theorem to the Royal Society and two years after Bayes' death.
So with that brief introduction, and the fact that Bayesian methodology is with us today
all over the place, used in many, many different areas.
So it's a very important field right now.
What do we know about Bayes?
Well, he was born in 1701.
We don't know the exact day of his birth.
His parent, his father was a Crespeterian minister.
He was a nonconformist in his religious beliefs.
The family had been discriminated against earlier because of their religious beliefs and things
were only opening up in about 1689 with the act of toleration.
So Bayes grew up in that atmosphere and he was destined for the ministry.
He went to what's called a dissenting academy.
These were academies set up in England to train young students for the ministry.
He went to one in London after he finished in London at about the age of 18, 1719.
He went to Edinburgh.
Again, there was a set of discriminatory practices where he couldn't go to Oxford or Cambridge.
So he went to Edinburgh, took theology at Edinburgh, and also studied mathematics at
Edinburgh.
He probably studied mathematics when he was at the dissenting academy.
They were quite famous for their interest in mathematics.
Again, it was interested in mathematics because of Sir Isaac Newton's work in what was called
natural philosophy, but now it's physics.
So they were interested in that because you wanted to understand creation and the way
to understand creation was through Newton's methods, Newton's theories, and then through
mathematics.
So after he finished at Edinburgh without taking a degree, he came back to London.
He worked with his father for a while.
He was then ordained as a minister, as a Presbyterian minister, and in around 1733 approximately,
he moved to Tunbridge Wells to take up a church in Tunbridge Wells.
For those of you who are tourists, you want to go to Tunbridge Wells.
The church is still standing.
I've seen it from the outside.
It's no longer a church, but it's some kind of business.
So when he was in Tunbridge Wells, he wrote a treatise, theological treatise, and he wrote
a short treatise on calculus, or what was called flexions, because of George Barclay's
criticism of Newton's calculus.
He wrote an answer to that.
And so he became known a bit in the mathematical community for this work.
And in the late 1730s, he met up with Philip Stanhope, second Earl Stanhope.
Stanhope lived near Tunbridge Wells and visited Tunbridge Wells, and probably that's how he
met Bayes.
The two of them began corresponding on mathematical subjects.
In the Center for Kenish Studies are sets of manuscripts by Bayes on various mathematical
subjects, mainly dealing with calculus.
But they also started corresponding on probability theory.
And they apparently were motivated by reading through Abraham DeMauve's second edition of
his Doctrine of Chances.
So they were working through those problems in the Doctrine of Chances.
The interesting thing is that Bayes is known for his famous theorem.
When he was working and corresponding with Stanhope, one of his solutions, or the only
solution that he sent to Stanhope on the theory of runs, which is given a set of a series
of successes and failures.
You want a certain number of successes in a row, so a run of successes.
His solution is incorrect.
So of the two known probability solutions by Bayes, one of them is incorrect, and the
other one is incredibly influential.
So from Stanhope, from his work with Stanhope, in 1742, Stanhope nominated Bayes for Fellowship
in the Royal Society.
He was made a fellow in 1742, and he had four other people who nominated him.
But I believe it was Stanhope who was the main driving force.
The theorem was probably discovered in the late 1740s, although it was published in 1763.
Bayes never, of the mathematical work that he did, he did not publish anything.
The work that he did publish, the Bayes' theorem, and one other thing related to DeWalb's
approximation to the binomial, he didn't publish that.
He was never published in his own name.
And so his theorem was never published in his own name.
And so the thinking is that it was discovered, or he worked on it at the end of the 1740s
because there is a quote by philosopher David Hartley who refers to the theorem, does not
refer to Bayes, but just calls him as my ingenious friend.
And so that's a vague indication that it was well before it was published.
So when he died in 1761, the story goes that the family contacted Richard Price to ask
Price to go through Bayes' papers to see if there was anything of interest.
That was in a memoir of Price by his nephew.
And so I think he was being very supportive of his uncle, and I think it was the other
way around that Price had heard of Bayes' work on this inverse probability problem.
He probably contacted the family to be able to look at the manuscripts, and he found the
manuscript that was of interest to him.
The reason Price was probably interested in the manuscript was that it dealt with a new
way of looking at inductive inference.
And when you look at the paper itself, the first part of it is just pure theory.
No motivation, no application, just pure theory.
And when you look at Bayes' manuscripts that are surviving, they're all pure mathematical
theory, no motivation, no applications.
Then when you get to the second part of the manuscript that shows up in published form,
the second part is due to Price.
And that has reflections on things like Bayes' theorem can be used to infer the existence
of God.
He has an application of the sun rising tomorrow based on all of your experience of the sun
rising every day and during your lifetime.
And so all of the applications are done by Price.
So you can thank Price for the applications.
He's now the first Bayesian in the world.
And Bayes, again, came up with a mathematical theory.
There was speculation about, Bayes wasn't sure that what he was doing was right.
I think that speculation is incorrect.
Bayes, his solution involved an incomplete beta function or an incomplete gamma function.
He needed an infinite series approximation to get it.
And I think he just wasn't satisfied with his approximation because after Price presented
Bayes' paper a couple of years later, he presented another paper on a better approximation.
Bayes died in 1761 in Tundra's Wells.
His body was brought back to London.
He was buried in Bunnhill Fields.
Price is also buried there.
So if you want to see Bayes and the first Bayesian walk outside your building and into
the park.
My experience in visiting Bayes' tomb about 25, 30 years ago was, I was a young man then.
I was too far away to get a nice picture.
I hopped the fence, went close to the grave, took my picture.
There were a couple of drunks sleeping it off in the background.
They thought I was taking pictures of them and they started to chase me.
So I hopped the fence again and outran them.
So that's my my first Bayesian experience.
My 15 minutes are approximately up.
So I'll give you lots of time to ask questions.
Thank you.
Yeah, thanks.
Thanks very much, David.
And thanks for the entertaining story.
I've got a nice image in my mind of you running across a graveyard pursued by drunks.
So just on Richard Price, do you think he recognized the importance
of Bayes' theorem, perhaps more so than Bayes himself?
That's really hard to say, again, because Bayes doesn't write anything down.
And he keeps his manuscripts were all just circulated to friends.
So Stan Hope had a cache of at least a dozen of Bayes' manuscripts on mathematical problems,
some of which could have been easily published and one of which was published
by another friend, John Canthan, a couple of years after Bayes' death.
So it's very hard to say if he recognized the importance of what he had done.
He might have, but he again, neglected or never bothered to publish.
Why he never bothered to publish anything is difficult to say.
It may not have been the thing to do for a clergyman.
It's hard to say.
I've just I've got some questions.
So I'm going to.
No, I've got a question on branding, which I think Caroline is going to deal with.
So he did some he wrote quite a bit of stuff about probabilities.
You were talking about the case of runs.
So is there is there any evidence there of his interest in the conditional probability,
which I guess is what provokes the Bayes' theorem?
So that was basically that problem was basically going through Dumov's book
and solving or resolving, coming up with different solutions to Dumov's book.
The possibility, and I've been exploring this with a colleague,
the possibility is that Dumov commented in a 1738 book when he came up with a normal
approximation to the binomial, there is a comment that that you can interpret as he thought it
solved the problem of inverse probability.
And so Bayes had definitely read that since he had tried to fix up what he thought was fixing up
Dumov's proof of the normal approximation of the binomial.
So he was he was definitely aware of what Dumov was saying about inverse probability,
and that may have motivated him to to look into inverse probability.
There is no firm evidence, and I know that when I when I float that suggestion to various people,
they're not keen because there's no evidence, but it's highly circumstantial,
but it's evidence that I kind of like.
And I mean, you were talking about him becoming a fellow of the Royal Society,
and I guess Royal Society was a different sort of body in those days.
It was more of a.
It was a gentleman's club.
A gentleman's club, yes.
A gentleman's club interested in science,
but you did have to show that you were that you had an interest in science,
that you were had an ability in science.
Unless, of course, you're an aristocrat.
If you're an aristocrat, you got in automatically.
But what Bayes did, my conjecture is what Bayes did was that he,
he solved a problem that Dumov had worked on.
It was another mathematical problem.
He'd come up with a different solution.
It was called the problem of trinomial divisors.
Nothing to do with probability, but he solved this problem.
And I think that was his entry essay into the Royal Society that he showed
that he was good at mathematics and that got him into the Royal Society.
So I have a question from one of our professors, Roy Batchelor,
