human experience.
But if he had had access to good microscopy,
he would have noticed that there isn't one
of anything here either.
This is what the pineal gland tissues look like
inside of each one of these cells.
You get all of this stuff.
So there's an incredible multi-scale organization.
And so the fact of the matter is, I think,
that we are all collective intelligences.
We are made of this kind of agential material.
So this is a lacrimary, it's a single cell.
It has no brain, it has no nervous system.
It's very good at taking care of local goals
in terms of its anatomical structure,
in terms of metabolism and so on.
And when we talk about machines and living organisms
and consciousness, we have to remember
that whatever theories we make,
have to make a ruling on things like this.
What happens here?
I mean, certainly people have a very chemistry-based
views of these things, but this is
what we are actually made of.
We may not feel like a collective of competent,
tiny little cells that are managing perception,
action, loops towards emergent goals
and weird problem spaces.
But in fact, I think that is exactly
what it feels like to be that kind of a system.
So I think we do, in fact, feel like exactly that.
And so the research program that we and others
are embarked upon is to discover the scaling rules.
How do we go from the individual competencies
of our components to rotating those goals and competencies
into novel spaces?
And so in bodies, not just human, but all bodies,
biology uses this kind of multi-scale competency
architecture, this idea that we are not only nested dolls
structurally, cells, molecular networks,
made of making up cells and tissues and organs and so on.
But actually, each one of these layers
has its own problem-solving capacity.
They are all solving problems in different spaces,
anatomical morpho space, the space of gene expression,
the space of physiological states,
and of course, familiar old three-dimensional behavioral
space.
And so that, I really like William James's definition
of intelligence, which is the ability
to reach the same end by different means
using some degree of sophistication.
So it's very good because it's, again, substrate invariant.
It really talks about the idea of a spectrum of competencies,
and it's kind of agnostic about what space we're working.
And that becomes important because, for example,
in conversations about AIs and other things,
when we say they're not embodied,
I think we really need to expand our understanding of what
spaces we could be embodied in.
And so we and many other animals are
pretty good at recognizing intelligence
in familiar three-dimensional space, so good old behavior.
And this medium-sized objects moving
at medium speeds in three-dimensional space
were kind of familiar with birds and primates
and other things doing that.
But biology does the same thing in other spaces.
So there are transcriptional spaces
where cells are able to solve very interesting problems.
Same thing with physiological space.
I don't have time today, but I could give you
some amazing examples of cells exerting
novel problem-solving behaviors by navigating these spaces.
What I will focus on for a few minutes
is this anatomical morphospace.
So this is basically the space of all possible configurations
of a group of cells.
So Darcy Thompson in the 40s was, I think, the first
to really get an idea of this idea of embryos
and other morphogenetic systems navigating that morphospace.
And I think we really have to get into the idea
that beings can be embodied and can have consciousness
in these other spaces.
I think that while we're very good at this,
if you could imagine if you had an innate, immediate sense
of your blood chemistry, let's say,
I think you would have no problem recognizing
that you live in a higher-dimensional space
and that your liver, your kidneys, and other organs
are, in fact, problem-solving intelligent agents
that are navigating that space exactly the way
you navigate three-dimensional space.
So let's focus on morphospace and talk for a few minutes
about what the competencies are of this.
What we argue is that, actually, morphogenesis
is the behavior of a collective intelligence.
It's the collective intelligence of cells
trying to achieve a particular anatomical structure.
One thing we know is that development
is incredibly robust and reliable,
but it is not hardwired.
So if I cut an early embryo in half,
I don't get two half bodies.
I get two perfectly normal monosygotic twins.
And so there's this notion of different starting states
being able to lead to the same goal state,
this ensemble in morphospace that we equate
to a normal target morphology,
and they can avoid certain local minimum.
Here's an example that we discovered some years ago.
This is a tappel here, the eyes, the nostrils, the brain.
And tappels need to become frogs.
And in order to become frogs, they
have to rearrange their face.
So the eyes, the nostrils, everything has to move around.
And so it was thought that this was a hardwired process,
that every organ just moves in the right direction
the right amount.
What we decided to test that and to see
how much intelligence actually is there.
And so we created what we call Picasso tappels.
Everything is scrambled.
The eyes on the back of the head, the jaws are off
to the side, everything is kind of mixed around.
And what we found is that these tappels
become largely normal frogs.
Because in fact, genetics does not specify
hardwired rearrangements.
What it gives you is a problem-solving machine
where every organ now moves in novel, unexpected paths
to get to where it's going.
Sometimes it actually overshoots and has to come back.
But it'll stop when it's done.
So what you really have here is a machine
that can do a kind of error minimization scheme
and start off in different configurations,
but always get to that same place in morphospace.
And this is of course what happens in regeneration.
This guy is an axolotl.
They regenerate their legs, their eyes, their jaws,
and so on.
And you can amputate the limb anywhere.
And these cells will build exactly what's needed
until they get to a correct salamander limb
and then they stop.
This, of course, is the most amazing thing about this.
This process is that it stops.
When does it stop when a correct limb has been formed?
Individual cells don't know anything about what a limb is
or how many fingers you're supposed to have,
but the collective absolutely does.
And it can stop when you get there,
no matter where you started.
It goes beyond this process of problem-solving
goes beyond damage to an existing structure
to what I think of as a good example of really
basal, creative problem-solving.
And it looks like this.
This is a cross-section of a kidney tubule in a nut.
And so usually about eight to 10 cells work together
to create these little tubules.
But if you artificially make the cells very large,
so this is different than damage.
This is not something that normally happens in evolution.
Nuts lose their arms all the time,
but this is quite different.
We've artificially made these cells to be gigantic.
And so what happens is then fewer of them get together
and they make the exact same size lumen.
And the most remarkable thing is that you can make these cells
truly enormous, and the way you do this, by the way,
is you make them polyploid.
So they have multiple copies of their genetic material,
and so the cells get bigger and bigger.
And in that case, one single cell will wrap around itself
and give you the whole lumen.
What's amazing about this example is a couple of things.
Number one, scaling of number to size,
so you can wrap your head around that.
But what's happening here is a completely different molecular
mechanism.
Instead of cell to cell communication,
you're now using cytoskeletal bending.
So this is a good example of top-down causation,
where in the service of a particular anatomical goal,
different molecular mechanisms will
get called up to solve the problem,
to give you the same outcome.
And the second cool thing about this
is that this is really an example of unreliable hardware.
As an embryo, you can't count on how many
copies of your genetic material you have.
You can't count on what the size of your cells are going to be.
You have to figure out how to get the job done,
despite massive amounts of novelty, injuries, uncertainty,
and your own parts and in the environment.
So this is very basal kind of collective problem solving.
And how does all this happen?
How can they do this?
