Thank you so much.
Thank you for having me here.
It's a huge, huge pleasure to be able to share some ideas
with you all.
I've never been to this conference before
and I'm very gonna really enjoy saying some things
that are actually fairly, let's say not as radical
as some other things that probably people have said.
So that's a new experience for me.
And so if anybody's interested in the kinds of things I do,
you can find all of that here.
I want to say right up front to set expectations.
I don't particularly work on consciousness per se.
I work on cognition, agency, intelligence, things like that.
And I do think they have implications
and so I will kind of go out on the ledge here today.
But I'm gonna make a fairly modest claim.
I'm not going to try to produce a new theory
of consciousness, I'm not going to try to support
one specific theory of consciousness with data.
Here's what I'm going to try to do.
I'm gonna try to make a fairly simple argument
that if we use composition and behavior
as evidence of consciousness in other systems
when addressing the problem of other minds,
that is if our criteria include things like
what are you made of, what are your behavioral competencies
and so on, if that's how we address it,
then for the exact same reasons
that we tend to associate consciousness
with complex brains, we need to take very seriously
the possibility of consciousness in many body structures.
That's a very controversial claim in some audiences,
maybe it won't be particularly controversial here.
But what I'd really like to do is to widen
the set of systems about which we think
when we think about consciousness and related issues
beyond human brains, when we talk about AI,
I don't want to think specifically
about just is it human-like
because it's actually much more interesting than that.
So one of the key things is that I think
we have to move beyond these kind of conventional
intelligences, there's a famous painting of Adam
naming the animals in the Garden of Eden
and if you think that there are these
very sort of discreet natural kinds,
then one can have these binary categories
of which things do and do not have consciousness.
People are pretty sure about Adam,
not so sure about some of the stuff
that's not shown here, paramecia, slime molds,
they are various other things.
So the reason that we have to think about these things
is that the standard human,
which features prominently in philosophical accounts
of consciousness and so on,
is really just one point on two continua
or four, depending on how you want to count.
But this kind of conscious or agential glow is,
you have to sort of decide what happens to it
as you walk backwards from a modern adult human
all the way back to the oocyte that all of us once were.
You can also walk it back on an evolutionary timescale
and ask what happens all the way back
because all of these things are smooth and continuous.
And in fact, with modern bioengineering
and synthetic biology, it's now very clear
that both using biological means
and sort of hybrid technological means,
we can create hybrids and chimeras in every possible way
and really extend the typical embodiment
in very diverse directions.
And so we'll get back to this more towards the end of the talk.
And so what I've been working on is a framework,
which I call TAME,
or stands for technological approach for mind everywhere.
And the idea is to be able to recognize, create,
and ethically relate to truly diverse intelligences.
So regardless of composition,
meaning what you're made of or origin story,
meaning whether you were produced the natural way
or engineered or some combination thereof.
And I want to be able to handle all of these kinds of things.
And the familiar creatures, all kinds of weird colonial
and synthetic organisms,
AIs, whether software or hardware,
and potentially exobiological agents.
And so of course, people have tried before for these kinds of,
so this is a Rosenbluth et al from the 1940s,
trying for a scale of these kinds of things
that are not particularly bound to embodiments,
let's say brains and things like that,
very kind of cybernetic definition.
And I've been working on a model that has to do
with what I call a cognitive light cone,
which is this idea that all agents have one thing in common,
no matter what they're made of or how they got here,
which is the ability to pursue certain goals
in certain spaces and the size of those goals,
the literal spatial temporal size of the largest goal
that an agent can pursue,
is one way that we can classify
and compare very diverse intelligences.
And the critical thing is that,
as I'm primarily a developmental biologist,
the thing that always just astounds me
is that all of us were once,
what people call, quote unquote, just physics.
We were all a quiescent oocyte, a little blob of chemicals,
and slowly, gradually, without any magical lightning flash
that comes in at any particular point during development,
we become one of these things,
or perhaps even something like this
that can reason back and make comments
about not being a machine
or being more than physics and something like that.
So this process is very slow and gradual,
and what we're interested in
is that process and the scaling of competencies
of very simple, minimal matter,
chemical signals, systems and cells and tissues,
the scaling up of the tiny little goals of single cells,
so metabolic and transcriptional goals
and things like this,
into collective systems that have very large goals,
I'll talk about this momentarily,
and the kinds of failure modes that the system has,
which is a breakdown of that collectivity into cancer,
back down to cells that have little tiny goals
about proliferation and migration,
and that's it,
and they no longer care about the rest of the system.
So the meat of our research program
has to do with understanding the scaling,
understanding that cognitive light cone
and how it actually scales up from that of a single cell,
and in fact, below that in some other work
that we've done with Chris Fields and Carl Friston,
and up, up and up.
And one of the things that happens in development,
which is kind of interesting,
is the auto-poeses or self-construction
of a single individual from a kind of a pool of potentiality,
and it looks like this,
this is an early blastoderm,
let's say of a human or a chicken or many other animals.
We see, let's say 50,000 cells,
and we say there's an embryo.
What are we counting when we say that's one embryo?
I mean, there really isn't one of anything physical,
there are many, many cells.
What is there one of?
And this is gonna become an individual.
Well, what there's one of is alignment,
both physical alignment and kind of functional alignment
towards a particular goal.
That alignment is the creation of a particular target
morphology, a particular anatomical structure.
As I'll show you momentarily, if you try to deviate it,
it will find new ways to get there.
So it's definitely this kind of homeostatic system.
But there doesn't have to be just one.
And if you make temporary scratches in this blastoderm,
what you end up with, each of these regions
not being able to feel the other self-organizes
into an embryo.
And eventually you end up with twins, triplets,
and many other cells.
So the question of how many individuals are in an embryo
is actually not clear.
It's not set up by the genetics,
it's a physiological self-organizational process.
And what it means is that each one of these individuals
has to, on the fly, every single time
that they arise in this physical world,
they have to solve this important problem.
Where do I end, and where does the environment begin?
Every cell is some other cell's environment.
How do these cells know what they belong to?
And so as I think Turing actually recognized,
this question of how bodies self-organize
is probably fundamentally the same
as the question of how minds self-organize.
And we see these kinds of dynamics in split-brain patients
and dissociative disorders and so on.
This question of how many individuals
are present within a particular amount of medium
that underlies it.
And so then people who think about these things
often think, well, okay, we have these,
what we call collective intelligences,
colonies of ants and termites and so on.
But at least we are a true unified intelligence, right?
We sort of, many people think that there's
a fundamental difference between these cases.
But of course, and for example,
Descartes really liked the pineal gland
because it's an unpaired structure,
and he felt that was suitable to the unified
