Because it has all the properties of memory.
So if I take these two-headed animals, which, by the way,
are genetically perfectly normal.
So the question of what sets the number of heads
in the planarium is not very simple.
It's not that the answer is non-genetics.
Because if I take this two-headed animal
with a perfectly wild type genome,
I can cut him again and again.
And in perpetuity, he will continue
to regenerate as two-headed forms until we set him back.
We know how to rewrite it back to the one-headed state.
And so this question of how many heads
are supposed to be formed, that memory of where do you
go in morphospace to the one-headed region
or the two-headed region, is stored physiologically,
not genetically.
It is long-term stable.
It is rewritable.
I showed you the latency a minute ago, conditional recall,
and it has discrete behaviors.
And here you can see what these two-headed guys do
in terms of when they're hanging out.
So not only can we control head shape this way
by putting these literally false memories
into this collective agent, we can actually think about,
as well, we can actually think about head shape.
So whereas normally, the species would
make a triangular head shape, if we
perturb the network topology, while it's
regenerating just for 48 hours, they can make these normal heads.
But they can also make round heads like an S-Mediterranean
or flat heads like a Pifelina.
These are other species of planaria.
They are, again, genetically untouched,
but there's about 100 million years of genetic distance
between these animals.
And so this, of course, includes the shape of the brain,
the distribution of stem cells.
They become just like these other animals.
And so the same exact hardware can be pushed
to visit other regions of that morphospace.
This is very much like behavior in three-dimensional space.
The hardware can learn many different things.
It doesn't always do the same thing.
And of course, you can get them to hallucinate
kinds of morphologies that are not even
typical for any species of planaria,
such as the spiky forms, cylindrical forms,
and sort of combinations.
So the exact same hardware can be pushed
into lots of different domains.
And so for the last couple of minutes,
I just want to show you one thing.
We were just talking about this anatomical morphospace
and the different shapes that are there and the species that
naturally know how to get to particular regions
and then how you push other types of implementations
into those regions.
But what does the space of possibilities
look like for totally new beings?
So let's make something that has not existed on Earth
before and see what happens.
So this is a project that we did with Josh Bongard's lab
at the University of Vermont.
And Doug Blackeston did all the biology
that I'm showing you here.
So this is an early frog embryo.
At this stage, we take the animal-cap ectoderm.
This is skin.
These are all of these cells are going to become skin.
We dissociate them, cut them away from the embryo,
dissociate them, and put them on their own.
They could do many things.
They could die.
They could spread out.
They could form a two-dimensional monolayer.
They could do nothing.
Instead, what they do is they gather together.
And over the next 24 hours, they're going to come together
and they're going to make this little interesting thing,
which we call a xenobot.
Xenobot because Xenopus laevis is the name of the frog,
and it's a biorebotics platform.
So the interesting thing is that the frog genome certainly
knows how to make this.
This is what we typically see, and this
is what we typically think the frog genome encodes,
a set of developmental stages, and then some behaviors.
But they can also encode this.
This is a xenobot, and it has its own interesting
developmental sequence.
It's never been seen before, and it has interesting behaviors.
What are the behaviors?
Well, the first thing these things do
is they repurpose their little cilia, the little hairs that
normally redistribute mucus down the body of the frog,
and they start to swim.
And they can go in circles.
They can go back and forth like this.
They have collective behaviors.
They have individual behaviors.
Here's one navigating a maze.
So you can see here, remember, there's no nervous system.
This is just skin.
It takes the corner without having
to bump into the opposite wall.
And then here, for no reason that we understand yet,
it has the spontaneous change of heart,
and it turns around and goes back where it comes from.
So these are spontaneously, motile organisms
that have different behaviors.
Here's one amazing behavior.
If you provide them with loose skin cells,
they will run around and collect those skin cells
into little piles.
They will compact them like this.
And because they're dealing with an agential material that
is not passive particles but cells,
these little piles mature into xenobots themselves,
and that's the next generation.
And guess what they do?
They go on and they do the exact same thing,
producing the next generation than the next.
This is called kinematic self-replication.
No other animal on Earth, to our knowledge, does this.
This is completely novel with this kind of construction.
And so they don't have neurons, but they
do have a lot of calcium spiking.
And you can imagine doing all of the things
that neuroscientists do with looking
for transferentropy and mutual information,
all these kinds of things.
So we can ask, what do the cells say to each other?
What do two xenobots say to each other?
We don't know their cognitive capacities.
We're investigating that now.
What can they learn?
What are their preferences?
Really important that we can't make armchair claims about this.
This has to be empirical studies.
So I'm just going to end here with two slides
to say that because biology has to solve all these problems
every time that a being arises into the swirl.
It has to set its boundaries, figure out
what the effectors are, what the sensors are.
And nothing can really be assumed.
It's so interoperable that pretty much
any combination of evolved material at any scale,
designed material, and software, is some kind of agent.
And people are already making cyborgs and hybrids
and every possible combination, which has implications.
We are going to be living in the next few decades
in a huge option space of new bodies and new minds.
Darwin said endless forms are the most beautiful
about the natural forms.
They're a tiny corner of this space.
We're going to have to come up with ways
to relate to beings that are nowhere on our tree of life.
So these old criteria of what do you look like
and how did you get here are not going to be useful anymore.
And all of these binary categories
are going to wash away as well.
Because when people make claims about machines and robots
and organisms, it's just very difficult to support
any kind of clean separation.
I'm going to stop here and just summarize what I've
tried to say is that biological systems solve and operate
in all kinds of spaces.
They have behavioral competencies that
include memory and learning and problem solving,
navigation, representation, perceptible by stability,
active inference, and so on.
The underlying mechanisms are also the same.
They use ion channels, electrical synapses, neurotransmitters,
microtubules, electric fields.
All of that is present in all of the structures
of bodies.
And if these are the kinds of things
that we think are associated with consciousness,
we have to take very seriously the possibility
that there are other unconventional
consciousnesses in our bodies and increasingly
being made by engineering kinds of efforts.
And to me, just taking a step back of how
we think about these things, all agency claims
are really protocol claims for how you can optimally relate
to that system.
And so as an engineer, I want to guess correctly
for various systems is where I am on this spectrum.
But of course, it's not just about engineering.
It's also about relationships.
And people are trying to develop sort of proof of humanity
certificates and so on.
And the question then becomes, what do you really
want when you have proof of humanity?
Are you looking for proof of native DNA?
Are you looking for proof of native anatomical structure
or something that we explore here, which is really
a kind of competency for compassion that maybe that's
