And so amazingly, or maybe looking backwards,
not so amazingly, it happens using the same mechanisms
that the nervous system uses to perform these functions.
So I don't have to tell anybody here
what the hardware and software looks like,
but this idea of ion channels setting up various states
that then drive the physiology that
is thought to underlie various aspects of cognition
and consciousness.
And neuroscience has this project of neural decoding,
where we're going to try to read all of these things
and infer what the creature is thinking,
remembering, experiencing, and so on.
So the kind of salient effect here
is that this system did not arise when brains and neurons came
on the scene.
This is evolutionarily ancient.
And even back at the time of bacterial biofilms,
through the work of Goral Sol, we now
know that even back then, already evolution
was using electrically-based computations
to coordinate across space and time
and to drive specific goal states from collective systems.
And so what we've done is now develop
some of the first tools that are able to read and write
this kind of electrical information out
of non-neural tissues.
So we want to do exactly what neuroscientists try
to do in the brain, but we look at other unconventional
intelligences solving problems in anatomical morphospace.
And so this is a voltage map of a time lapse of a frog embryo
organizing its primary axes.
And we can literally, using these voltage-sensitive dyes,
we can see, interpret, and modify
all of the integrated information
and all the communication that goes on
to enable them to reach collective goals.
And so it's a very parallel system, very much the way
that the bioelectrical events in the brain
are controlling muscles to move you
through three-dimensional space.
This more ancient system is using
bioelectrical events elsewhere in the body, right,
from the moment of fertilization to control all of the cells
to move the configuration of the body through morphospace.
It's the same thing.
And what we think evolution does is basically pivot
the same set of tricks across various spaces.
And so what we can do is we can, of course, we can image this.
And so this is, again, voltage-sensitive fluorescent dyes.
This is a video of a frog embryo putting its face together.
And this is one frame.
And long before the genes and the anatomical rearrangements
of the cells begin to form the frog face,
you can already read out this pre-pattern.
Here's you, and I'm showing you this one
because it's the easiest one to decode.
We have others that are a real bear to make sense of.
But this one is pretty obvious.
Here's the animal's right eye.
Here's the mouth.
Here are the placodes.
You can already read the pattern memory in this tissue
that is going to guide the collective activity of the cells
to be able to reach that normal frog target morphology.
And so this is the normal pattern.
This pattern is required for development.
If I perturb this memory, I'll show you in a minute
what you get.
This is a pathological example.
So this is a human oncogene that's
going to basically cause the cells ultimately
to electrically disconnect from their neighbors,
roll back to a unicellular lifestyle,
and their cognitive light cone shrinks
from that of a large organ down to individual cells.
And now, as far as they're concerned,
the rest of the body is just external environment.
They're no longer part of this collective,
and that's tumor genesis and metastasis.
And you can detect this quite readily, this shift.
You can actually see it happening now.
So the way we manipulate these things,
we don't use any kind of electrodes
or applied magnetic fields or anything like that.
We use the native interface that the cells are normally
using to control each other's behavior
and link up into this larger scale intelligence that's
able to move in morphospace and other spaces like that.
So what that means is we can target these gap junctions,
these electrical synapses.
We can control the voltage states directly
using optogenetics, using drugs that
open and close these channels.
We can control the neurotransmitter movement
through these networks.
All the same familiar tools of neuroscience
really do not distinguish between neural tissue
and other tissues.
Everything works.
The tools work, the concepts work.
Everything is readily portable, and so that's what we do.
So I want to show you an example,
and this is just one of many examples of what happens.
I showed you that electric face picture,
and one of the things there was an eye spot.
It was a particular pattern of voltage
that corresponds to an eye.
And we said, what happens if we recreate that same pattern
memory somewhere else in the body?
And so what we did was we injected ion channel RNA
encoding a potassium channel that
sets that particular voltage state.
We encoded it.
We stuck it in some cells that are normally
going to be gut here.
So this is endoderm.
And when you do that, those cells
are happily enough make an eye.
And this eye has all the right lens, and retina,
and optic nerve, and all of that stuff.
Many things we could say about that.
One of the most interesting things about it
is that very much like the kind of scaling
that you see in other collective intelligences,
it has the following property.
This is a lens sitting out in the tail of a tadpole somewhere.
The blue cells are the ones that we actually injected.
But there's not enough of them to make a proper eye.
And they know this.
And what they've done is they've recruited
a bunch of their neighbors, these unmarked,
because they were not directly modified by us,
cells to participate in this eye building project.
So what's happening here is these are all
native competencies of the tissue.
We didn't have to do size control.
We didn't have to tell them how to build an eye,
what all the different gene expressions and cell types.
We have to do any of that.
We put in a very simple prompt or stimulus,
build an eye here.
And all the stuff that's downstream of that,
including the way ants recruit their neighbors
when they have a task that's too big for them,
all of that works.
And so we're starting to see some of these properties
and how to interface with them in the body.
And one of the most important things
is the ability to literally rewrite these pattern memories.
So this is a planarian, these flatworms.
The most amazing thing about them
is that you can cut them into pieces.
And if I cut off the head and the tail,
this middle fragment 100% of the time
regenerates into a nice one-headed worm.
So you can ask the question,
how does it know how many heads it's supposed to have?
And if you actually look at the bioelectrical pattern,
you see this interesting pattern that says one head, one tail.
And what we can do now is we can rewrite that pattern.
This is kind of messy.
The technology is still being worked on.
But you can see what we've done is we've said two heads.
And if you cut this animal, now you get a two-headed worm.
And this is not Photoshop.
These are real animals.
Now, notice something very interesting.
This bioelectrical map that is the map of this
perfectly normal anatomical structure, one-headed creature.
The gene expression is in the right place.
The anatomy is in the right place.
What we've changed is the internal representation
of what a correct planarian looks like.
And they stay normal until you injure them.
If you injure them, then all the cells consult this pattern
and they end up building this different pattern.
So that question that I asked at the very beginning,
how do the regenerating cells know what to make?
They literally store a memory of where in morphospace
they're supposed to go.
That memory is rewritable.
And you can think of this as a very primitive precursor
to our amazing mental time travel capacities
being able to imagine things that haven't happened yet
and remember things that are not happening now.
Because this bioelectrical pattern
is not a map of this two-headed creature.
This is a map of this perfectly normal one-headed animal.
So a single planarian body is able to store at least
two different representations of what
a correct planarian is supposed to look like.
And I'm sure there's lots more.
But this is the one we've nailed down.
So it's a very primitive example of a counterfactual memory.
What would I build if I were to be cut at a future time?
Not what's going on right now.
What's going on right now is this, one head, one tail.
Now, I keep calling it a memory.
Why is that?
