hope we find some overlaps and interest and I will tell you something relevant.
So I'm going to discuss the global organization and evolution of what I call the world of
virus. Then we shall see what it is and what are the boundaries and outlines of that world.
Let me try to get a better pointer and here we are. So I put this quote, I assure you that this is
for you, a real quote from Einstein, the fact that the world is comprehensible is a miracle and
what I'm going to try to convey to you and convince you about is that the world of viruses,
as they call it, is becoming gradually comprehensible. Of course, it's a special honor for me today
to speak on the 215th anniversary of Charles Darwin's birth and visual talk a lot about the
virus. So this is my group, it's a long picture, still pre-pandemic. So some people have exchanged
but the size of the group remains roughly the same. And we work on a variety of aspects of
evolutionary genomics of all kinds of life forms as well as viruses and evolutionary theory of many
subjects but evolutionary viruses is one of the main ones, one of my favorites and this is what I
will discuss. To begin with, it is necessary to see and this may be used to some that viruses are
the dominant entities in the bias, physically and genetically, as particularly shown lately
by metagenomics and metatranscriptomics and we shall discuss the results from such studies
considerably over the next hour. So to throw some kind numbers on you, a small sample of say sea
water, like one million, contains from a million to the whopping billion of virus particles. The
great majority of them are diverse bacteria species, viruses infecting bacteria that we
also which we find anywhere including our very own guts.
So viruses are considered to be the most abundant biological entities in the biosphere up to 10
virus particles per cell in many habitats and the planet-wide counts reach this hyper astronomical
number. These are numbers based on physical observations of virus particles. I think we now
have better more reliable numbers coming from metagenomic estimates of concern genes and these
are a bit sobering, going to downgrading the viral cell ratio to about 2 per cell on average,
but still the observation is indicated that viruses are the most abundant biological entities on
earth. But more about viruses, what is more important and also more or less takes book
knowledge but not necessarily fully appreciated by everyone. I think first of all the
some unnecessary sounds, sorry,
ubiquity and inevitability of genetic parasites. I will not go much into general
theory now, maybe another time, but it's possible to almost mathematically prove that
genetic parasites and viruses are genetic parasites emerge necessarily
accompanying every life form. They are completely ubiquitous in the biosphere. What is more
is that unlike cellular life forms, unlike us, so to speak, cellular organisms, viruses use all types
and all kinds of nucleic acids as their genetic material. Accordingly, DBA form is often represented
as the central dogma of molecular biology from double-threaded DNA to different types of RNA
molecules and from messenger RNAs to proteins. This is the universal and uniform scheme of genetic
information, estrogen transmission in all life forms and in many viruses, but in a great many
of other viruses, this is different. Basically, the genome of what is incorporated into virus
particles can be any form of nucleic acid. We know of course, especially after the coronavirus pandemic,
that many viruses get single-stranded RNA in their variants of different polarities,
messenger RNA and the complementary strand or double-stranded RNA or single-stranded RNA
or finally either single-stranded RNA or DNA, but including a reverse transcription step
into the replication cycles. In other words, unlike cells, viruses do with nucleic acids anything
that can be imagined actually in terms of using all forms as their genomes, giving rise to the
provocative idea that virus-like entity might have been sort of nature's original genetic test
ground at several stages of the evolution of life. We shall talk about the possibility
or lack thereof of this idea. And finally, it's clear to be emphasized that viruses are not
more effective. There is no common ancestry of all viruses, not a single universal gene or no
viral equivalent of ribosomal RNA and ribosomal proteins, which allow us to build trees of life
of the universal trees of all cellular life forms. We call the limitations of that approach,
which is a subject to a different discussion. This is possible for cellular life forms,
but not for viruses. Making the study of the evolution of viruses particularly challenging
and perhaps also particularly interesting. Can I ask a question? If you wish, of course.
Yes, this is probably a stupid question in the sense that are there any viruses that
are devoid of nucleic acids, like encode information in some other aspects,
maybe in a protein sequence or something like that? Interesting. This depends on the definition.
In a straightforward definition of a virus known, viruses have nucleic acids and more over.
The more appropriate definition of a virus would be a replicator of RNA or DNA based
replicator that encodes in the least single structural protein, a capsic protein, typically.
Let's say if one speaks of replicating and infectious entity, there is a class of such agents
called priors, which are based totally on proteins that undergo self-induced
conformational changes which propagate. These cause some devastating or even unfortunately rare
in humans neurodegenerative diseases, such as Kurov and so on, as well as so-called
Metcal disease. Then there are also some common in the infant giants, so there are protein-based
self-replicating entities that replicate on a completely different property, but we do not
call them that. Got it. Thank you. I will discuss something very peculiar but still
containing nucleic acids. Although there is not a single universal gene among viruses,
which makes the study of virus evolution challenging, things are not altogether bleak.
There is a small number of what we call virus cold mark genes, which encode
key proteins involved in the formation of virus particles and virus genome replication, and that
are widespread in viruses. In particular, present in viruses from different so-called
Baltimore, classes of viruses with different types of information storage and transmission.
I will not go into the details of this, but here are structural models of some of these proteins,
capsid proteins, as well as proteins involved in replication of the virus. Genomes are independent,
are a neighbor. Immigrates, transcriptases, and their connections to different Baltimore classes.
The study of the evolution of these hallmark genes, phylogenetic studies, structural comparisons,
et cetera, allows tracing deep and very deep connections between viruses.
So after this introduction, I would like, so to speak, to begin from the beginning,
and that is discuss the ideas and concepts of the origins of viruses.
So the origins of viruses can be discussed in the literature, often in connection with the
origin of life and the origin of cells, for about 100 years. This discussion started
soon after viruses had been discovered. And at some point, a couple of decades later,
they sort of crystallized into three types of ideas. One class of such hypothesis,
maybe called virus early, postulating that viruses or virus-like entities sort of precede
the origin of modern type cells, perhaps not of any cells, but of modern type cells with large
DNA genomes come, so to speak, from the pool of primordial replicas.
Interestingly, not the prescient ideas have been proposed by Herman Merler and J.B.S. Coudin
back in the 1920s, when it was difficult to imagine, but they did.
The second class of ideas on the origin of viruses, maybe put under the umbrella of
regression, whereby viruses, small and comparatively simple as they are,
are thought to be the product of reductive evolution of cellular parasites, such as,
in particular, intracellular parasites, such as ricketts, etc. And finally, the class of ideas
known as escape. Genes hypothesis, whereby viruses are descendants of more or less
what are both regular cellular genes that can somehow go in the circle and acquire
replicative autonomy. All this is nice to think about, but really it was
study of the origin of viruses was not really a mainstream research direction until very recently,
because these were speculative considerations, there was not too impossible to obtain any evidence.
With the advent of genomics, and most especially lately, meta-genomics and
metatronics, which has changed, with tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of
very diverse virus genomes available and methods for their comparison progressing,
we now, for a decade or so, maybe are in a sensible position to start deciphering these
origins. And this is what I will now present, which is what we try to do with my colleagues
systematically. And first about virus genome replication modules. They are highly diverse,
many, let's say the majority of viruses encode different types of DNA in their polymerases,
and some others encode enzymes that are not exactly polymerases, but are nevertheless involved
in the initiation of virus genome replication. They're highly diverse, and if you compare the
sequences, let's say by blast or even by more sensitive methods, you will see no such thing.
But when you turn to structural complexity, the picture changes, and what we discover
underlying this diversity and complexity is considerable simplicity, in that at the core
of all these different insights responsible for the replication of virus genome, so at least for
key steps in that replication. If a single simple, very basic domain, so-called RNA recognition
motif fold, which schematically looks just like this, very basic, and that is found in a huge variety
of RNA binding and some DNA binding proteins in all kinds of life forms, and many of these
domains have no enzymatic activity, but many others. Some enzymatic activity, some catalytic
centers have been grafted in the course of evolution, where I can know this viral polymerase.
So the idea here is that all these enzymes ultimately evolved from non-catalytic RNA binding,
and then the most, this seems to be a solid conclusion, the most speculative one is that
these proteins began their existence as cofactors of RNA-based polymerase still
in the RNA world, later on evolving in full-fledged protein catalyst.
When we look however at the roots of viral structure of proteins, the more genetic modules,
as we say, what we see is very different. What we see here is that essentially all of these proteins,
and this is somewhat outdated, we have done a lot of, and others have done a lot of additional
analysis supporting these conclusions since then. All these proteins have traceable
ancestors among various cellular proteins, primarily those that possess carbohydrate and
new fake acid binding properties, which is, I guess, a natural idea. Taken together,
these observations lead us to what I like to call a chimeric scenario, virus origin,
which is in a sense a marriage of the virus early scenarios where the replication apparatus of viruses
comes from the ancestral, perhaps, precellular pool of replicons, and the escape genes type of
scenarios, thereby other essential components, structural components of viruses that make them
bona fide viruses instead of just selfish genetic elements, are indeed escaped or stolen genes from
cellulose. I think based on the bulk of available evidence, this is the best we can figure out
about the origin of viruses these days. Now, however, I want a need to move from what happened
four billion years ago to something that is happening now, namely the rapid progress of
metagenomics and metatranscriptomics. I don't think I need to explain what that is
in this audience methodologically, but what may not be fully appreciated is that
just like the case is for bacteria and archaea, but perhaps even more dramatic,
the great majority of viruses that exist in the biosphere have never been cultivated. We don't
know their costs. We don't have any means to, in fact, cost cells in the laboratory and grow
these viruses in a conventional manner. So the great majority of the viruses that are being
now discovered and the rate of this discovery is enormously high, resulting in exponential,
for sure, but perhaps even higher exponential growth. All this wealth of new discovery
almost all comes from metagenomic and metatranscriptomic sequences of viral genomes,
and it's particularly nice when it comes to viruses with modern methods because viruses
get comparatively small genomes, and oftentimes you just find the contents that correspond to
complete viral genomes. I illustrate this by this slide, also somewhat outdated, but giving you the
idea this is based on the results of the so-called tarant metagenomic expedition, which thoroughly
exploited the metagenomes and metaviromes of the world ocean, collecting
seawater at different stations all over the globe, and in this case sequencing and identifying
viral genomes. So here this is the number of stations of these spots, locations where a particular
virus genome was identified, and this is the abundance on the risk scale. So here the colored
little circles correspond to known viruses, to viruses with known costs, whereas the gray
circles correspond to those known only from metagenomics, and you can just see that both the
most prevalent and most abundant ones come from metagenomics only, and this is pretty dramatic
given that this is a very big scale, and again this is somewhat outdated slide. If I went to the
trouble, which is considerable trouble I'm afraid, because of the amount of information, to update
this I strongly suspect that the colored circles would be almost invisible, would be simply dropped
by the metagenomic ones. So nowadays metagenomics and metatranscaptomics are the main source of
new viral discovery, so much so that the international community for the taxonomy of viruses now
recognize new species and new texas solely from metagenomic analysis.
So in view of this, I would like to briefly introduce this
recent work that we did with our collaborators on expanding the RNA virus,
so expanding the world of viruses with RNA genomes, which means that you need to
analyze metatranscaptomes, not metagenomes, and we did include in this particular study
more than 5,000 metatranscaptomes from all kinds of locations, mostly environmental,
but also host-associated, and there were several studies on similar scale performed in parallel by
us. So there are computational pipelines that are involved here, it is a fairly large-scale analysis,
but I want to go into the details of this, what I do want to emphasize that the outcome of this,
of this single set, is about a 5-fold increase in the diversity of known RNA viruses at some
level, roughly at the level of genomes, more than 500 of novel biolabel texas discovered
and leading to the realization, revelation I would say, that RNA viruses that until now
have been thought primarily as pathogens or parasites of animals and plants are actually
widespread and diverse in bacteria as well, and an interesting observation here
is that for the first time, we actually observe that bacterial CRISPR systems of a certain kind,
those that incorporate reverse transcriptase, actually target RNA viruses.
So I wanted to show this slide for a particular purpose, here we can perform an evolutionary
reconstruction for the genomes of RNA viruses, the accumulation, parallel accumulation of
different domains, leading from very simple and simple viruses to complex
modern ones, and I wanted to show this because the sort of pinnacle of complexity in RNA viruses
are the genomes of the notorious corona viruses, which reach up to 40 kilobytes,
more than some recent discoveries and include a great diversity of protein domains, some of which
cause trouble. So I have been talking about progress of meta transcriptomics and metagenomics
and new discoveries, this was a very large scale study, so there from here, there is still a way
to go in this very recent paper that we did with our colleagues from Japan, they describe
a couple of new groups of viruses, this was this is a more targeted study which used a new technique
to sequence complete genomes of multi-segmented RNA viruses on a smaller scale, but what was
discovered is interesting, in the sense that it is a group of RNA viruses that may be ancestral to
all the rest of the diversity, that encode replication enzymes that appear to be evolutionary
intermediates, at least by structure of a person, between RNA dependent RNA polymerases and reverse
transcriptases. Where from here, I need to mention this massive study employing artificial
intelligence to define diversity of RNA viruses, which is still available only as a preprint,
but should be appearing in nature very soon, which dramatically expands further the RNA virus and
we still need to digest it all, but we already had that, what we call sometimes mega taxonomy
framework, the main divisions of that allow us to study all this diversity in an ordered manner.
And after introducing these studies of virus diversity and evolution, I now sort of switch
to the summary of this global taxonomy of viruses that we developed some time ago actually
at a very peculiar date, because this was approved by the International Committee for Taxonomy of
Viruses, right at the time the pandemic, the COVID-19 pandemic was officially declared,
so this mega taxonomy now captures what may be called the global architecture of the
world of viruses. And that global architecture is encapsulated in four major, very large,
each of them texa, known as realms, which is a new taxonomic level for viruses just
