recently introduced, there is no equivalent among cellular life forms, you may say that the
domains of cellular life forms, bacteria, eukaryos, are roughly similar to this in Rankin's case.
So these four major realms, riboviria, which we have discussed RNA viruses,
the world without reverse transcriptase stage in the reproduction cycle,
but not the very single-stranded DNA viruses and two distinct realms of double-stranded
DNA viruses. Each of these realms may and I suppose should be considered
monophyletic in the sense that despite all the diversity of each of them,
is glued together by one or more of these homework parties. So I will go through the
taxonomic schemes quickly, just not to discuss them in great detail, but more time,
but just to illustrate that this has been worked out all the way from the level of realms to the
level of families, here they are, these large realms of viruses. So this one is probably
the largest, the most diverse, and includes the traditional well-known bacterial phages,
uteral beryoms like T4, etc., as well as graftless viruses, and in a few minutes we shall discuss
some novel and fairly striking discoveries within these generally well-known realm viruses,
as well as this one, which includes giant viruses, such as mini viruses and Pandora viruses that have
genomes larger than the genomes of many bacteria in Turkey, as well as the satellites known as
viral phages. The developments here have not stopped there. We probably have discovered already
by the time, some three or four years ago, all the large, major realms of viruses, but smaller,
more specific ones still remain to be discovered, and two have been established. One is called
adnaviria, which includes viruses of hyperthermophilic archaea, with double-stranded DNA genomes that
astonishingly are incorporated into the beryoms as an A4 DNA, which has been,
until very recently, found in nature, but these viruses do it, but we shall not discuss it further
today. The other one is called ribosiviria, and this is particularly interesting, and we shall
talk about it more, because there is more to say, which includes the smallest known infectious agents,
so-called pyroids, which I will say more in a few moments, as well as a very important human
pathogen, hepatitis delta virus, which has a genome that is a circular RNA molecule of something like
1.7 Kb, which includes a single viral nuclear capsid protein, a very unusual form of a viral
genome that, until recently, appeared unique, but we shall see that it is not anymore.
So, about the realm, or possibly multiple realms, of viroid-like circular RNA, also a recent
work that we have done, published with our colleagues, and other groups have done similar
things in parallel. So, to begin with, what are these entities? Because I think they deserve to be
very familiar to anyone interested in the evolution, perhaps even early stages of
genome revolution, but they may not be that well known. So, viroids, as I always mentioned briefly,
are the smallest known pathogens, not all the pathogens are smaller known genomes all together,
and the smaller means really small. These are circular RNA molecules of about 250 to 400 something
nucleotides, very tight, encoding known proteins, nothing encoding nothing, and typically forming
these very rigid rodent or sometimes branched secondary structures, which allow them to
cause transcription machinery into replicating their genomes, and then they process ribosomes
that are involved in the processing of replicative intermediates. Until very, very,
very late. These agents can be known to infect and cause some diseases, some economically important
diseases, even in a handful of plant species, nowhere outside a few families of plants.
Then there are similar entities such as satellite, viral satellite RNAs, also known in plants,
sort of viroids, circular like RNAs, that depends on RNA viruses for their application,
and then there are reposiviruses, of which only one representative has been known recently,
human hepatitis delta virus. So we thought at some point, rather recently, that it looked very
strange that such potentially basic type of replicant, which these tiny replicants that
exploited cellular or viral enzymatic machinery to replicate the genomes without coding anything,
and since we are so small, there have been ideas circulating about potential relationship between
viroids and primordial replicants, but given the narrow spread in nature that sounded too specular,
so we thought at some point that this was unlikely relatively. Could it be that through
the diversity of these replicating and infectious agents could be just over a month?
And so we undertook this project, searching the same collection of metatrons,
thousands of metatranscript terms, which we analyzed to discover novel RNA viruses,
to look specifically for circular viroids like RNAs. And on the whole, a great variety of these
have been discovered, resulting again in about a five-fold expansion of their known diversity.
And these were found in a great variety of metatranscript terms from all kinds of
locations, from all kinds of habitats, many of which contain no plant or material whatsoever,
and therefore hardly could come from plants, but rather from various kinds of unicellular
eukaryotes, and even bacteria, and we even observed that some of these are targeted by
CRISPR spacers, clenching the case for bacterial coughs. And then a variety of viruses with this
type of genome organization have been discovered as well, suggesting that
suggesting that in the course of evolution there have been many cases of
transition from viroids like circular RNAs encoding nothing to viruses with circular
RNA genomes encoding various proteins. I think forcing us to reconsider the possibility
that such simple replicants might have something to do with the primordial RNA world.
From here on, I will transition too much in some of the last things that I'm going to say today,
transition to much larger viruses, double-stranded DNA viruses, where also a lot remains to be
discovered. And we shall talk about how to start discovering these, because these are the most
abundant human-associated viruses. So the most abundant human-associated viruses are not flu
and not SARS-CoV-2, but something totally different. Something found in our guts,
infecting a variety of bacteria that is one of the most abundant in our guts,
and known as cross-phase. Cross here comes from cross-assembly, because these have been
assembled from multiple gut metal genomes about a decade ago. And this was a startling discovery.
Because these viral genomes in many individuals and many individual gut metal genomes account for
up to 90% of the viral sequence reads. But no one had the slightest idea of the existence
until a metal genomics came of age. On top of that, the viruses looked like nothing. The great
majority of their proteins encoded in the approximately 100 KB genomes showed no significant
similarity to anything in the world. So at some point, my colleagues and I got very interested
in the analysis of these genomes, figuring out that, or speculating, that hardly such an abundant virus
could be. Or fun, and lo and behold, indeed, in primarily in metal genomic sequence databases,
we discovered hundreds of related virus genomes, and very diverse in themselves, but fortunately
able to identify the main proteins involved in the re-information and the replication.
And this became a very large, expensive, diverse group of viruses,
coming from all kinds of environments. We thought it would be a family of viruses, but
in a subsequent or recent study, we realized that the diversity within the group itself was huge,
and it's actually now a new order of phages that on top of the diversity per se,
encompasses a whole lot of new, interesting, not really understood biology,
with the multiple occasions of alternative codes, re-signed codons,
cases of multiple splicing events, as well as some novel type of g-scrambling that we have not yet
figured out. And very recently, with our colleagues in the United Kingdom, we developed this
structure that was of the cross-phage, these beautiful particles, and interesting novel
phenomena, whereby in addition to viral DNA, the heads and foundations of the tails of these viruses
contain multiple cargo proteins, which apparently are injected into infected bacterial cells,
before even the viral genome is injected, and then mediate the expression and replication
of the virus of the genome. And the final, final studies that I'm going to discuss today in the
next few minutes go sort of full circle back to the early stages of evolution. This is about our
attempt to reconstruct ancient virals. What kind of viruses were associated with the last universal
common ancestor of all phenomena? Life and the last eukaryotic common ancestor.
So, like all evolutionary constructions, what we do in order to get the idea of these ancestors,
virals is mapping different groups of viruses on the phylogenetic trees of universal genes
for bacteria and archaea, if we are looking at the reconstruction of the viral of the last
universal common ancestor, so we map all these diverse groups of viruses to the costs distributed
across these phylogenetic trees. And the conclusions that we come to are rather striking to me,
in the sense that the distribution of viruses across all these groups strongly suggests
that even at the stage of the last universal common ancestor, the viral was already highly
complex, comparable to that of the virals of modern bacteria and archaea. At the time we were doing
this analogy. This was before this expansion of the global RNA viral and especially the
global diversity of viroid-like agents. So, we were tentatively concluding that these groups
were not present in the last universal common ancestor, but the latest discoveries suggest
that maybe this should be reconsidered, and they might have been already there at this stage of
evolution about four billion years ago. And should that be the case, the leuka viral was really as
complex apparently as the virals of modern bacteria and archaea. And the diversity of the
reconstructed virals in itself I think implies a highly complex leuka, not a homogeneous
microbial population, but rather a unity of diverse microorganisms. And the final
study that I want to discuss very briefly is the reconstruction of the
viral or the last eukaryotic common ancestor. We do it in the same way or map different groups
of eukaryotic viruses onto the phylogenetic tree of eukaryotes in this case and come to the conclusion
that similar to the previous one that most of the higher text of eukaryotic viruses
were already represented in the last eukaryotic common ancestor. This could be anticipated
perhaps, but the non-trivial turn of this study is this. What we find, I should say to our
surprise, is that all major groups of eukaryotic viruses actually have detectable
ancestors among bacteria but not archaeal virus. Superficial, by using simple logic,
one could think other because the genetic machinery, replication, transcription, translation
in eukaryotic cells all come from the archaeos. And since viruses are genetic parasites,
one would suspect that the eukaryotic viruses also might come from ancestral archaeo form,
in particular because we now know of the Asgard. Here the closest ancestors of eukaryotes
end of some of their births. This is dramatically not the case, however. In each case, we can trace
the origin of the major groups of eukaryotic viruses to bacterial ancestors. Why is that the
case? Our hypothesis is that it's all about the membrane. There is what may be called the
great membrane divide between bacteria and archaea. Membrane and phospholipids are
different chemical entities with different areas. They're poorly compatible between bacteria and
archaea. And so the hypothesis here is that archaeal viruses are excluded from emerging
eukaryotic cells because the entrance and exit were hindered by bacterial cell membranes.
And that translates into scenarios of eukaryogenesis that maintain that the integrity of
bacterial cell membranes was retained throughout. I think I will now make
some conclusions from what I tried to tell you today. First of all, the viruses are ubiquitous
and they're normally abundant. They're normally abundant in the biosphere. The most abundant
biological entities, they all live in a virus world, so to speak. Metabiromics, metagenomics,
and metatranscaptomics now become the prevailing approach in virus discovery and we're
getting some, seeing some order now in the world of viruses, settling on virus mega-taxology.
I think we have a credible scenario of the origin of viruses and the growing knowledge
of virus diversity provides for reconstruction of some of the most ancient viruses and these
reconstructions provide feedback for understanding what the actual cellar ancestors might have looked
like. I now acknowledge my collaborators coming from, not only from my group, but from all over
the world and many other, my principal collaborators and many other contributors. Thank you very much
for your attention and of course I'm delighted to answer questions.
