How do we let go of the certainty that we know what the right answer is?
But we also let go of the certainty there is no answer and we're fucked.
We orient towards faithfulness that answers might exist and they take working towards,
and then we commit to the discipline and rigor to be part of figuring that out.
Knowing that we can't do all of it,
the discipline and rigor of evolving ourselves to work well with
other people that are also doing it so that collective intelligence of groups of people
working to do that can and act solutions.
That is like the discipline of a people that want to be able to reinstate
governance of foreign by the people.
Collective insights as a voyage through topics and technologies revolutionizing human well-being.
Groundbreaking approaches for a better world and a better life await you.
Welcome to collective insights.
Well, welcome to the next edition of Homegrown Humans with Neurohacker Collective.
And this is a very full circle kind of conversation.
Get to speak with a dear friend and colleague and fellow instigator of all things.
Future facing Daniel Schmacktenberger, one of the founders of the Concilience Project,
an organization dedicated to improving the world's information ecology
and bettering our collective decision making so that we can forge
futures that we all want to live into as well as part of the founding team of Neurohacker Collective
itself and a generally all-around thoughtful and good guy.
So Daniel Schmacktenberger, welcome to Homegrown Humans.
It's good to see you.
You're going to be talking with you, Jamie.
It is a fun full circle thing given that the first instantiation of this podcast ever.
I was hosting five years ago or something like that.
And then Heather did and then we started to grow it.
And yeah, it's cool.
It's cool to be here talking to you.
Absolutely.
Well, listen to me.
There's an infinite number of directions that we can go.
But one of the ones when I kind of just busted out my notebook that came to, you know,
leapt off my pen first was just curiosity on your sense of how, you know,
the kind of quote unquote, the conversation.
And by that, I would say we can refine it to all things.
Tending towards both existential risk, future studies, positive interventions
at any level of the human cultural stack that we're playing with.
What's your sense as we're not really out of the whole COVID woods,
but everyone's just playing through at this point.
So it feels like we are somewhat on the other side of two and a half years of quarantine.
And I'm just curious, if you've got an answer or we can just explore this out loud,
is what feels like it has shifted or changed?
What have you noticed from, say, where we were in January, whatever it was,
was it 2020 that we went into lockdown?
Is that right?
So we went in February or March, right?
So what going into that woodchipper of existence?
What's changed or shifted?
Because obviously there's been so much.
And I think we've probably already started forgetting the layers as they've come in.
But what are you tracking that is different now in the summer of 2022
than when we were all sort of caught on our wares with a two week lockdown in late February of 2020
within this conversation and our friends, our colleagues,
and just what you're sensing in the zeitgeist of the space?
It's an interesting question because the initial frame of what things are in the conversation,
it actually seems like a pretty small number of people that think about existential risk and all
things positive and say the world as a whole as a single conversation.
I would say the biggest changes that I've seen in terms of people's sense of,
like maybe what that conversation has in common is people who are thinking about
humanity and the world globally.
What are the major issues that we face rather than in a specific sector or by a specific nation or
to a specific audience of people?
But what are the things humanity faces globally?
And what are the ways of addressing those that might be adequate or meaningful?
And how do those global issues contextualize other things that might be meaningful?
I would say COVID, but even before COVID, the Trump election, I noticed a shift in my conversation
publicly, but also in my conversation with a lot of institutional heads, whether like academic,
government, big business, whatever, in their sense of there are problems, but there have always been
problems. This is business as usual to the sense that, oh no, we're actually entering a kind of
different phase where Pax Americana and the post-World War II world seems to be
shifting radically. It seems like the degree of bipartisan, like, venom and polarization
associated with the Trump election had a lot of people who had before that still been arguing
their problems, but the country works fundamentally fine. It works better than any other country to
like, oh, maybe there's actually an existential risk to democracy itself.
Maybe social media technology really did break the fourth estate in a way that breaks democracy,
but it's fine for autocracy. I started noticing much more serious consideration regarding the
fundamental viability of these social systems that we've depended upon, liberal democracy and
things like that. And then so much of Australia coming on fire. And then everybody forgetting
that because of COVID when that was like the biggest thing ever. And then the secondary shocks
of COVID from the supply chain effects to the economic effects to that. And then I think definitely
January 6th and all of the George Floyd related protests and that suite of things seems to have
made the small group of people that saw that these current world systems were untenable and
kind of unwinding made that pretty popularly, if not believed, at least something that a lot of
people were sensitive to, and particularly the people who have been in the running the institution's
position. That is something I find very interesting. So what I've found is that I've had way more people
asking about things like how do we fundamentally redesign our political economy? How do we
build a world where democracy is viable in a post-social media and pretty soon post-deep fake
world? And asking in even getting a little bit more future oriented, what does the future of
economy and education and everything in a post-technological automation world look like?
Those are questions now that there are very few people in institutional positions not
kind of interested in, and there were very few very interested in them before.
Yeah, that reminds me of that University of Chicago philosopher Jonathan Lea who wrote that
book Radical Hope, and I reference him at the end of Recapture the Rapture, but he said,
the inability of a civilization to conceive of its own demise is one of the blind spots of any
culture, and it does feel, if I'm tracking what you're saying, you're sort of suggesting that
2016 through now, including both the political disruptions there, Brexit, Trump, Gen 6, but
also these psychosocial governmental policy, everything of quarantine, has just massively
stretched the Overton window as to what quote-unquote mainstream or polite opinion
is willing to entertain at this point. Yeah, totally, and I know our friend,
Nate Higgins, is just out with you, and there are some things that are still really far outside
the Overton window of thinking about adequate solutions to, and so I'll just take his as an
example, because maybe people here are familiar. One of the things that he looks at very deeply is
that the GDP of the world, the total size of the global economy is pegged very tightly to the total
amount of energy used, which makes sense, right, whether your any good or service was going to
require some energy, so it's kind of tightly pegged. We say, well, what about efficiency,
shouldn't we get more dollars per joule of energy with efficiency? Yeah, but at a smaller rate of
changes in efficiency than the rate of increased demand of energy from the increased demand in
finance and those efficiencies lead to using more energy. Is that Javen's paradox? Javen's paradox.
Any time you get an increase in efficiency of energy, you use more energy, because when energy
becomes a little bit cheaper, you get new markets that open up, and the energy return on energy
investment needed to get us off oil means you got to use a lot of oil and coal to make those
solar panels. It's going to take them 10 years or however long to make enough energy to pay off
the energy it took, it just doesn't converge. And so then we say, okay, well, this is like a key
insight is that somewhere around 2019, we started getting very clear diminishing returns on hydrocarbon
investment, meaning it takes more barrels of oil to get a new barrel of oil. It's not specifically
like clossands and fracking and all the diminishing returns on those original bonanzas.
Exactly. And so if we're in a place where we can get more oil, but we're getting
lower energy return on energy investment, which is going to continue to happen,
while having a need for an exponential amount more money for the financial system to keep
up with its own interest, and the money and the oil are correlated, that thing doesn't get to keep
going. And so then there's a reckoning in where like the price of oil has all the externalities
in the environment, we're not making more hydrocarbons of that type, and we're not dealing
with all the waste of which climate change is one of the waste streams, but not the only one,
obviously oil spills and mountaintop removal mining for coal and everything. So if you were to say,
what would it cost to pay for oil with real costs, right, where we could sustainably keep
doing this forever, we're not actually net harming the environment, depending upon which
way you analyze it, it's $10,000 plus per barrel of oil. And that makes it...
So wait, that's an interesting data point. So you're just saying if you actually priced in both
costs of acquisition, restoration, distribution, pure refinement and distribution, and then all
sort of carbon offsets that would be required to do this in a sustaining way, then you're at 10K
a barrel? 10K to a million, depending upon how you factor all of the lifecycle analysis.
And so what that means is that the cost of my shoes and the cost of the computer we're talking
on and everything just became like the entire market of everything broke.
Yeah, so you basically buy a pair of shoes and you get them resold
indefinitely, a pair of really good shoes, right? It changes purchasing decisions.
Well, and the computer we're talking on, that rather than being a $2,000 or $3,000 Apple might be
like a million dollar Apple, if you factor the real cost of what it takes for the supply chains
to make this thing. And then you're like, okay, we would actually not even do manufacturing the
same way. We only do manufacturing this way because we've been able to externalize all the
costs to the environment. Now we're hitting planetary boundaries. We're not going to be
able to keep doing that. If we were going to internalize the costs, we didn't externalize
like half the costs. We internalized like four orders of magnitude more of the costs than we
internalized. And so nobody is thinking seriously enough about what the fuck does an economy that
does not externalize costs look like and how do we retool our total global infrastructure
in that way? And how do we do it in the time we have factoring that we're already in diminishing
returns on hydrocarbons and everything is oriented towards growth and you have to completely change
the financial system. And so I would say at least conversations like that are, there are more people
listening to them and bothered by it. That doesn't mean there's anything like a transition plan on
those things that is starting to get realistic. Yeah, we actually, one of the fellows who attended
our camp was actually a really good hearted DC policy analyst and his partner is Tibetan Arjun.
She's working deeply in the house and the Senate as well. So they're way into the policy side of
things, but interestingly had kind of, you know, come that, you know, familiar with your work as
well, familiar with that kind of thing. And it was very interesting to kind of hear their sort of
inside baseball on how the policies like if people knew that this was all just overworked Ivy League
early 20 something, a congressional aides that are fundamentally moving this all through the system,
people will be shocked and horrified. But I'll tell you what, I want, there's so much you've
just, you know, you've just teed up here. I want to, this is probably one of the main threads of
the conversation. But before we jump into it, I just kind of want to also ask you about the other
side and I'll play my card first, which is I have noticed a staggering number of people in the last
two years get sucked down conspiratorial rabbit holes and people I otherwise thought were sane
and grounded are now in the tank for one particular, you know, reality tunnel conspiracy theory,
or another, including otherwise fairly centrist public thinkers, etc. etc. So whether that is
convinced of some grand Davos led great reset conspiracy bundling in vaccine concerns bundling
in the deep hermeneutics of suspicion, sort of all round and and sort of therefore veering
precariously too dangerously too irresponsibly into some form of acceleration as a meaning
let's hurry up and get this thing over let's help start tearing it down, because the big time baddies
are out to get us. So first let's just talk about that what what what have you been noticing because
I mean, I've been shocked, you know, about how just divergence among friends and colleagues
that I would normally even while we have a variety of different political, you know,
philosophical perspectives, I always took them as sort of good faith representatives of their stand.
And now, you know, and we know some, you know, some filmmakers, documentarians, right, that
there's a whole swath of these folks, podcasters, you know, what what is your sense of that, because
it's one thing to say at the bottom of the barrel of Reddit and eight chain and telegram,
you've got some kooky folks saying some wacky ass things, but it feels like that has bubbled up
and has now been capturing a staggering number of otherwise what I would have thought of as
reliable independent thinkers. What's your take on that? First of all, are you experiencing it and
if so do you have any sense of mechanism? Yeah, there's a lot in there and it is true.
There was obviously already a trend that had been strengthening for some time since like post
Vietnam on increased left-right polarization and also increased kind of pro versus anti-institutional
or pro standard model anti standard model orientation. Obviously, we saw this pick up
heavily with social media because of the nature of how social media works and then.
But in this timeframe, we saw it pick up a lot and I would say, you know, the leading up to the
Trump election post and then COVID definitely. But I wouldn't, I don't think the way I would
say it is, there's a lot more people that are conspiratorial because that's part of it. But
there's also more like interestingly blinded standard model support simultaneously.
So that's a mouthful. So unpack that.
For every like the whole
instant zeitgeist washing on it's not a lab leak, it couldn't have been a lab leak,
the science has settled. If you think that it could have been a lab leak or engaged the hypothesis,
you're doing some weird kind of xenophobic conspiracy theory. That was a really radical
push in the zeitgeist that was not founded. The science was not settled. It was a totally
reasonable hypothesis. Whether it was true or not, it was absolutely something that needed
to be explored because if you just have that big of an effect on the world, of course, you
fucking explore all those things. And if we're doing gain of research and synthetic biotechnology,
and we had an instant somewhere, we might have more of those instances. So it should absolutely
be a totally realistic conversation and the suppression on the conversation.
That's what I would call there was like a standard model narrative.
And there were more smart people that bought the standard model narrative without realizing how
ridiculous it was. While there were simultaneously more that assumed that it was baby eating
