it through if we don't have something like that. And yet nobody has proposed any system of governance
we would trust with that. That would be like some centralizing power dystopia. So it would be like
salt treaties or some other nuclear non proliferation. But boom, across a whole additional
swath of stuff. And stuff that moves way faster. Nukes move really slow. And so you don't have to
do as much because everybody can't make nukes just when somebody publishes because the physical
tech is ordered. But that's not true for since by area. So we do have to there is no in the same
with the like everybody becoming conspiratorial or standard model bias. There is no way for us to
make this much sense of stuff. Like we do have to come up with institutions that can process this
that are both lots of humans and computational capacity that we trust and that we have a reason
to trust, meaning the kinds of audits and transparency and everything to avoid corruption
and embedded mistakes have to happen. So this I think is a really critical thing to realize.
Well, okay. So that's that's one that has has baffled me. I mean, I even wrote a bit on it
a month or two ago, which was just what I've noticed is that, you know, basically, because
what you're describing is a some version of a benevolent new world order. You're saying we do
need global coordination for global existential issues. We need to have authorities that have
the capacity for enforcement and policymaking. And the thing that baffled me again, back to this,
what's happened in the two years of quarantine and that kind of thing is that this is not just
ultra far right libertarian john birchers, you know, afraid of the, you know, afraid of the
council on foreign relations and the club of Rome and all these big time baddies and, you know, and
watching for these things. It's now on the left hand side, it's on the spiritual, psychedelic,
transformational cryptocurrency side. So everybody, even nominal progressive do gooders
are now completely freaked out about any form of coordinated transnational governance, right,
and are now seeing that as signs of the beginning of the end, the move to the panopticon surveillance
state, you know, lockdown. And so now, even people who would have who would normally follow
everything you just said and agree and be rooting for benign authority to do something
on our collective behalf are actually now so suspicious and resistance, resistant to any
signals of gloat transnational coordination, that they're sort of, they're going to be in,
you know, at minimum passive resistance all the way to potentially violent uprising.
But they're right. And so this is, this is why I talk about catastrophes and dystopias as the
two things we have to simultaneously prevent and find a third attractor that's neither because
if you maintain, if you try to avoid too much centralization, so you use things like markets
or the separation of lots of countries or whatever, you end up getting these kind of
multipolar trap race to the bottom things, they make the fucked up AI weapons, so we have to also
make the fucked up AI weapons so we don't lose they produce the carbon so we have to nobody can
stop climate change. So we get catastrophes from that model. In order to avoid those catastrophes,
you can't just use incentives, you have to be able to use deterrence, which is because somebody
will figure out how to have enough incentive to do the whatever the fucked up thing is and if they
get so much advantage out of doing it that then everybody else has to do it or lose, then you
have to have a deterrent that says, no, nobody gets to make bio weapons. If you start making
bio weapons, we're going to stop that forcibly. We're going to do something to stop that and
whether that's tariffs or war or whatever it is. So then who implements that to have enough
control to prevent the decentralized catastrophe processes looks like enough control where you're
like, wow, to have the power to do that looks like an uncheckable power. And the history of
uncheckable powers is not pretty. If people are concerned about excessively concentrated power,
that just means they're good students of history because there's nothing in history that tells us
that's a safe idea. And even if you have something like, obviously, there's lots of times where a
very malevolent dictator pretends to be a benevolent dictator that happens all the time. But even if
you have a more benevolent dictator, you get the rules for rulers dynamic, which is the equivalent
of a multipolar trap on the other side, the rules for rulers is, if there's that much concentrated
powers, the more power seeking people want it. And so you've now centralized the point of capture
of the system, even if you set it up good at first. This is why it's like, the Republicans and the
Democrats, it's a common thing that they'll be like, when they have their guy in, they want to
increase the power of the executive branch. And then they get really upset that they increase
their power of the executive branch from the other guy gets in because fuck, you just,
your guy doesn't stay in and you increase capture possibility, right? So anytime you have a system
that has a lot of centralized power, how do you prevent capture and how do you prevent corruption
becomes the core questions? How do you build that in given that we've never had good answers to that?
Because the more malevolent people are willing to do fucked up stuff to get in that position,
the benevolent people can't stay totally benevolent and adequately deal with the malevolent ones
under most situations. So they either lose and it gets captured, or they become capable of winning,
which makes them less benevolent, i.e. even the good Kings putting heads on stakes to make sure
that people knew not to do that thing because it was better for them as a whole population-centric
wide kind of punishment strategies. So we have to, we have to solve the catastrophes, but we have
to do it where the control mechanisms are uncapsurable and uncorruptible. That requires
new shit. It's not democracy as we have understood it. It's not markets. It's not monarchies. It's
not communism. It's not, it's actually some better processes of governance that the same
infotech that is messing the world up enables if we do it rightly.
Well, now you're, so now you're getting into the post democracy question, right? And back to
Overshine windows and what people are willing to consider these days. And so you were riffing on a
lot of the multipolar traps, the race to the bottom, if someone's going to do the shitty,
if someone's going to be a sociopath, if I, if I have a, basically a non-zero suspicion
that there is a sociopath amongst us, then I might as well do the sociopathic thing just to
prevent the other person from doing it, right? And then having us all with our pants down. So
therefore we can get sociopathic behavior, even if all of us were actually otherwise decent people,
but just not in a hundred percent trusting environment. And that sounds like the Slate
Star Codex famous piece, Meditations on Moloch, of which it was very rudimentary game theory as
he went through all those things, like it's far better for a bunch of countries to sign on to
anti-pollution treaties, but keep polluting. Because what they want to do is actually hamstring
everybody else to get an advantage, all those things, right? So for people that are listening
along at home, right, the Slate Star Codex Meditation on Moloch was one of those kind of
central pieces a few years ago. This also brings up, I think is it Menchus Goldbach? I forget,
that's his nom de plume, what he's here in Austin now, but you know, he's been arguing
fairly boldly and provocatively. He's kind of one of the Peter Thiel-backed
disruptors, chaos agents, right? But he's arguing for some form of a return to monarchy,
a.k.a. Plato's Philosopher King, a.k.a. Rousseau's Enlightened Despot. So what do you think,
given the risk assessments and the coordination challenges that you're describing about the
are we at the end of a very brief, really fairly wobbly 300-year experiment in representative
democracy? And are we moving towards, as Victor Orban and many others, right, are starting to
kind of signpost a post-democratic, much more centrally controlled forms of form of governance?
And is that an innovation or an aberration from where you believe we ought to be going with this?
Yeah, to get into what I think the social system adequate to
safely steward the power of exponential tech must be, there might be many different specific
proposals, but what the criteria that must be in place to do that are and to do it in a way that
are also not highly central controlled dystopias. It's beyond the scope of what we can do right now
because there's a lot of other ways that things fail and a lot of other criteria is to make the
more we'd have to build, but I'll speak to the democracy as a very temporary thing.
There's a lot of different smart assessments about why democracy is a short little blip,
or as we understood it, and obviously that occurred because of some fairly unique things
happening in the change of mostly infrastructure. Obviously, the first one that comes up in the
kind of McLuhan line of the way media tech changes stuff is the printing press enabled
people to overthrow feudalism because you could start having a newspaper and textbooks,
as opposed to the hand-topping of information where you had to be very wealthy to have access
to information, and nobody thinks the idea of people being engaged in governance who have no
idea what's going on makes sense, right? So the foundation... That was a founding fathers kind
of question, right? It was the illiterate mob. Yeah, it's a big part of why they chose, amongst
many things, representative democracy rather than direct democracy, but the founding fathers were
coming out of modernity's enlightenment, and the idea that the two prerequisite institutions for
democracy to have occur were a very high quality of public education and a fourth estate or independent
news and media. So everybody could be educated enough to understand all of the issues,
and they could ongoingly be informed enough that they could participate in collective
choice making, and of course that was also, in 1776, the complexity of the issues was way less.
You could actually be an expert in most everything technical at the time, right? You could understand
the issues of agriculture and infrastructure and whatever if you were a kind of renaissance era
enlightenment person. Ben Franklin's in the Thomas Jefferson's of the world, yeah. Right,
and that was why they wanted a representative democracy. It's too high a burden for the average
people to study all of that, but some people can, and the average people can study enough to be able
to see who understands the issues better and pick them to represent them. Obviously, now we're in a
situation where the average people can't actually tell good thinking from populism, and the representatives
not only couldn't be an expert in everything, mostly they're not experts in anything,
or even particularly good thinkers. They're people who are good at
winning those types of political games, so the whole basis of that thing's eroded.
But there's definitely a, the idea of if we are, you've seen those things where they go around and
interview Americans to show how sad it is about how dumb Americans are, they're again obviously not
showing, I'm sure the people who said the right answers didn't make it into the editing of the
clip, so it's again trying to show us a strawman version, but do we see a lot of young people
who think Africa is a country and can't name previous presidents and all like that? Yes,
there's a lot of that, so obviously our public education is not doing what it would need to
for something like democracy to make any sense at all, because what should the average person's,
like how much do we want to factor their thoughts on international relations if they think Africa is
a country? Well, that's always boggled me as all these new shows have rushed to be like hip
and online and like, who's tweeting what? And then they'll take social media things and they'll
be polling people and like, do you think Syria has weapons of mass destruction? So they're like,
how the fuck would you know? Like, why are you polling a body politic that is absolutely has
no access to the relevant information to ask what they think? And it's somehow considering that,
you know, up-to-date newsmaking is baffling to me. Okay, you're actually saying something else
really important. Not only is it clear that the people aren't getting educated enough for base
things like, like geography and history, right, not just even news and classified information.
So the education is not there, the news and their relationship to it is not there. And as we mentioned,
rather than a newspaper where everybody reads the same thing, you have a social media feed now
where everybody reads a personalized to them optimized for engagement, which is usually more
limbic than good thinking modes. So you have the like the social media thing isn't just the end of
the fourth estate, it's an anti-fourth estate, it exactly does the opposite effect of what the
fourth estate was supposed to do, which is rather than give everyone a unifying basis of information
to go to a town hall on, it gives everyone the certainty on stuff that is exactly opposite of
what the other people have certainty on and strawman villainized versions with a social contract
is broken. And if your greatest enemies are your other, are your other citizens of your same nation
and a democracy, that's the end of the democracy. So there's one way where there's the like the
McLuhan-esque scholars say that, like the guy at Center for Digital Life, that democracy is a
function of the written word being the dominant method of media. And that actually TV was the
beginning of the end of it and internet was completely the end of it. Because when the written
word was the dominant method, not only did you have everybody could have textbooks and you had
the enabling side in newspapers, but you also had people had to read long form to get any
information and they had to know how to write, right, if they're writing letters and sending them
via mail. The development of all of the modern democracies we have in that time, it meant you
had to be able to linearize your own thought, you had to be able to hold kind of longer thoughts,
read books, things that didn't have hypernormal stimuli. It's a very interesting assessment
that democracy, as we understood it, was the result of a particular way of info processing
that was mediated by a certain info processing technology without which that thing won't work
anymore. You can't do short attention spans in democracy because democracy requires being able
to hold many people's opinions and lots of conflicting information. And so that's one,
there's like three others, but I can see you thinking on that one that I was going to say of
like, what was unique to the founding time of democracy that isn't true anymore, where the
way we think about it moving forward has to update itself. Well, yes. And then just to give us a
little bit of elbow room on that, because my sense is, you know, you're effectively idealizing or
strongmaning a sort of age of the early republic where, you know, all citizens and voters were
sort of extended renaissance, well, you know, literate, competent thinkers and some version
of renaissance men at that time, just men. But, you know, I mean, being an American historian
myself, I mean, like those early republics, it was a fucking bear knuckles brawl. And they would
host keggers and get all the people wasted. And they'd throw barbecues and cookouts. Now put your
vote in for our buddy who just sponsored this, like there was all kinds of thumbs on the scale.
There was the Federalist Papers. There was all kinds of quote unquote, fake news and diatribes
between Madison and Mason and those guys and back and forth. And right. So I just think it is
important to understand that like democracy has always been a wild, chaotic, hopelessly messy
process versus some idealized origin state that we have fallen from grace and therefore can never
get back to, you know, to me, that almost gives us more resiliency now, being like, oh, these are
the mutations, these are the variations on the theme. But, you know, but this is there's continuity
versus a fall from grace as far as the narrative. I don't think that what I'm saying is that it was
that perfected thing. And I think what I'm saying is that the the narrative of how democracy should
work, it was being developed at that time was partly for political expediency and partly
based on real political philosophy and earnest thinking, right. And it's usually always a mix
of both. Because memes that are just based on earnest truth with no motive usually don't catch
on that well, because no one's that motivated to push them. And so we wrote this article in
Consentence Project called where arguments come from on the kind of think tank research industrial
complex of like, if there's an idea that is trending, there's probably somebody that cares
about it that is making a trend that funded all that research and did all the ongoing publishing.
And that that's not connected to what is simply the best idea anyone's ever had in the space.
And there's quite a few in there that we did that are relevant to these topics, the one on how
to mislead the facts is another relevant one on the people who get caught into biases that are
not the conspiratorial ones with the standard model ones and think that it's all fact check.
But so let's I'm just trying to take the earnest part of the philosophy of democracy
that was occurring and say that was the philosophy upon which the political thinkers were saying
this thing might work, right, is we could give everyone a good quality of education could give
them all news, and we could at least have a representative class that was very well educated
on the topics and the smallness of scale so the printing press the education thing.
And things like public education so that that was being insured for everyone which wasn't a thing
under most of feudalism, right. And it's a tripartite government term limits there was all
sorts of these fairly ingeniously constructed checks and balances effectively to nudge towards some
expression of the infinite game, right, the attention isn't definitive when and loss,
but to keep playing. Like they would I mean to me, the architecture, whether or not it's still fit
for purpose, you know, secondary question, but I mean, it does feel like the architecture was
