you know, it's pretty easy. I absolutely loved it there. I mean, there were about a dozen into it.
There was a Hudson Bay company, a man with a Hudson Bay and just one Canadian I was with.
And I took two suitcases full of books and read them by the midnight sun. And for years afterwards,
I would say, I've got to go back to the Arctic. It was so beautiful, but amazingly.
And this is the thing which I do think we should really try and preserve the world. It is so amazing.
And the worry of wars and climate change. So far as I know, the average temperature at
Bathurst Inlet, where I was for the summer of 1958, is now four or five degrees centigrade warmer.
Wow. Yeah. Yeah. That is just staggering in, you know, when I've gone from
early 20s now to 84, that that is a scary thought. Yeah. So that brings me on to what I would say is,
you know, well, yes, you asked me about, I mean, you suggested I read the at the end of
Genesis, but I'm very impressed by another Jew, that is Jesus. And he summed up it in two commandments.
Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. This
is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself. Of these two commandments hang all the law on the prophets. Now, I'm
agnostic. I've no idea where the universe comes from, why I'm here. But I do think it is
precious. And, you know, I think it would be an appalling tragedy if intelligent life
disappears from the universe. We might be the only place in the universe where it exists.
So I think that's very important. And I do think
the preservation of intelligent life and happiness are valuable. So I rate happiness very highly. So
as regards Jesus's second commandment, I accept it totally. I say, try to treat your
neighbor as yourself, but make sure that you're happy yourself. Otherwise, it's just going to be
a darn right miserable person. And I will say myself, luckily, I've basically been a pretty
happy person. I've been blessed with a cheerful personality, it seems. Yes, yes, you certainly
have. And you are very influential on me and literally thousands around the world. Yes,
it is true that the commandments are very, to be taken seriously, means that if you have to love
your neighbor as yourself, all the more so, we say in Hebrew, do you have to love yourself
like yourself? But if you have to treat people with weightiness, with importance as your parents,
you should treat yourself. And that's great that you mentioned self-care and taking care of
your mental health as you did. And I imagine that will play into your advice to your former self,
which will be the final question. The second question, though, is reminiscent of one of the
characters in this book, Richard Feynman, who has many, many appearances in the Janus point.
And he said, if asked to summarize the greatest amount of information in the shortest sentence,
he said that he would sort of put forth the atomic hypothesis that everything is made of
atoms and they have electrons and structure and so forth. I want to ask you, if you had a monolith,
a time capsule, like Arthur C. Clarke's Sentinel, and you could be guaranteed Julian,
it would last for a billion years, what would you put on it or in it besides a Northern Canadian
weather forecast? I would put my two triangles. Yes, let me see them, hold them up. So here they are.
Now, the fundamental question that goes back to Newton and Leibniz is, how do you define motion?
What is motion? So Newton invented absolute space and time so that he could define,
so that he could give a mathematical definition of the law of inertia. So for him,
there is an absolute space like a block of ice and in it you can draw lines and free particles
will move in a straight line. And Leibniz said, this is nonsense. All that happens is
there are separations between particles and they change. So if this triangle at the vertices of
the triangle, there are three particles, according to Newton, they can move in two ways. They can
change the separations between the particles and at the same time, the whole triangle can be moving
in absolute space. And Leibniz says, no, that's no good. All that is real is the changes in the
separations. Now, I do take very seriously the principle of least action. How do you define
action? What is the action when I go from a triangle that has this size and shape and a
triangle that has that size and shape slightly different? And I'm going to say what is the
difference between those two triangles without using the position that they are in my kitchen.
I'm just going to use the two triangles. So I'm going to say, I take this is my reference
triangle, and then I take the second triangle, and I lay it on top of the other one,
and try and bring it to overlap, to congruence. Congruence is the fundamental principle for
making proofs in geometry. So I'm going to try and bring it to congruence, but I can't do it
exactly because they're not the same size and shape. But what I can do is move them into
different positions, and then I can take the separation where particle one is in this triangle
and in this triangle. So there's a separation. I'm going to square that separation. I'm going
to multiply it by the mass of that particle. I'm going to do it at each of those three vertices,
and then I'm going to add that up, and then I'm going to move it until I get it into the
position that minimizes that quantity. And I say that that is the process of best matching.
That was what my collaborator, Bertotti and I, developed in our paper, published in the Proceedings
of the Royal Society in 1982. And I think I am very confident that that actually solves the problem
of how you define motion provided the universe is a self-contained thing. So that's what's going to
go in my monolith out in there. And there's quite a nice, I used to travel to all the
conferences with my triangles. They were too big cardboard, plywood triangles, and hold them up
and do that. And on Google images, you can find a nice color picture of me in Krakow in Poland
doing it. So that's my monolith in the back of me. As long as the universe is something
self-contained, I'm very confident about that. It meets a lot of criteria. Maybe what we'll do
is make your monolith have a triangular cross-section or multiple triangular cross-sections like some
kind of Penrose staircase. And the final question that we ask all of our guests has to do with
Sir Arthur C. Clarke's third law. Did you ever know Sir Arthur Julian? No, I've read one or two of
his books. When I was younger, I did read a bit of science fiction, the War of the Worlds and things
like that. But I don't read any science fiction now. But yeah, I certainly know of the man and he
was right. That's for sure. Yes. So he had many great aphorisms, including my favorite from time to
time to use them. My colleagues is, he would say, for every expert, there's an equal and opposite
expert. But for now, his third law gave me the name of this podcast. His third law states,
the only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them
into the impossible. So I want to ask you, what was the aspect of life that was most mysterious
or most foreboding, intimidating as a 20-year-old, but now makes perfect sense to you because you
had the courage to go into the impossible? What worried me? I tell you what, I don't think I was
seriously worried by anything, Brian. Well, I was dead lucky. I mean, my father was earning
good money at the BBC. He'd inherited some money. I was very lucky. I had a very stable
upbringing. At school, I could high jump. I was reasonably athletic. Now you ask me,
I don't think I ever worried about anything. I just, I wanted to become an astronomer. I got
absolutely hooked on astronomy at about the age of 10. And until I started asking myself, what is
time and what is motion, I still wanted to be an astrophysicist like you or a cosmologist.
But then suddenly these questions came. So I said, I'm just going to try and answer these
questions. So I was lucky. Is that a satisfactory answer? Yeah, you knew early on. Well, that's
great. And you also gave wonderful advice earlier in this segment. But Julian, for now, I want to
thank you for having the courage, the brilliance, the insight to go two hours plus with me in total.
And I think, again, this could be just the logarithm of the amount of time I wish I could
spend with you. And I hope I get to meet you someday soon. All right, great. Good to talk to you,
Brian. Thanks very much. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
