together, the shape must tend to be an equilateral triangle.
Now if you say that the highs has no meaning, it's a gauge degree of freedom, then if the
shape stays sensible and even becomes very sensible and uniform and becomes an equilateral
triangle when they all collide, if you say that the only physical degrees of freedom
are the ones that describe the shape, the angles, if they stay well-behaved, there's
no singularity.
So let me hold up this triangle and move it ever further away from the camera.
You see the size change, but not the shape.
This to me suggests very strongly that the shape is the only thing that counts.
And this puts a completely different way, potentially, on thinking about the singularities
of the Big Bang.
I won't hazard anything about black holes, because I'm more interested and I haven't
really thought much about black holes, but I certainly have about the Big Bang.
And I think that's a very interesting possibility.
And if you have lots of particles, there are many, many possibilities for these total collisions
or total explosions, if you reverse them the other way, then you get a Newtonian Big Bang.
And in that case, you can start off one of these total explosions, these Newtonian Big
Bangs, where the universe is in its most uniform shape that it can possibly have.
That's in, and it has the shape of what is called a central configuration.
It's a scale-invariant quantity.
You blow it up as much as you like, but the ratios between the particles just stays the
same.
And basically, if you think about the history of the universe, let's just forget about inflation.
What we know as a fact is that a split second after the Big Bang, the universe was extraordinarily
uniform and it has got more structured inhomogeneous ever since.
And I would think maybe these Newtonian Big Bangs are a model of the universe when you
if you, shall we say, you put on spectacles and all you can see is the shape and not the
size.
Of course, we can't avoid putting in a shape as well.
I think we're very, I think the reason why we always imagine there's always a size to
something is because of the image that's projected onto our retina.
That is, so the size of the object is the fraction of the area compared with our complete
retina.
And that's just, if you think about looking at the sky at Orion, the constellation of
Orion, it has a certain size relative to the total area of the sky.
So I think the bedrock of physics should be ratios and at all stages it should be ratios.
And if we're talking about a triangle representing the complete universe, it should just be the
ratios of the sides or the angles.
Yes.
And that brings up a concept that one of my listeners was eager to discuss with you is
whether or not if time is emergent and space time or somehow equivalent, that shouldn't
space be emergent in some sense.
And Lee Small and our mutual friend who you kindly asked a question of when he appeared
on the podcast about two months ago, sat to say he has not reciprocated yet.
I'll be waiting and I'll ping him again and see if he can give us a comment, but he's
quite busy.
He kind of has this belief, as I understand it, that space time itself can emerge from
basically fundamental constraints on causality.
And so what about space would be privileged?
In other words, would space pre-exist time?
Well, all science starts with certain hypotheses and mine is that geometry is fundamental.
Actually, my favorite saying is one of Galileo's, he that attempts natural philosophy without
geometry is lost.
It's a wonderful saying.
And I just don't think you can do without geometry.
In fact, I would retain the continuum and all I would retain is angles.
And this is actually when you, when you try, I mean, if you set about taking out everything
in the way we think about physics and do physics and say, what, what redundant things can I
take out and get down to what, if I go any further, I will destroy everything and I can't,
I can no longer walk because I've chopped off my legs.
What I want to know is what is the essential things?
And my belief is that it is actually geometrical relationships and they can be illustrated
in the first place, I think, with particles in space.
You can do an incredible amount with particles in space with where you have separations between
the particles and some separations are greater than others, but the ratio is well defined.
It's a pure number.
That's another of my fundamental principles.
The whole of cosmology and physics should be expressed in terms of pure numbers.
Now you can say Newton's, the rot set in with Newton when he introduced time and distance.
So the Greeks always said ratios must be of the same things.
So you can take the ratios of two lengths and then you've got a pure number, but Newton
introduced time as well as length in his things.
So the velocity is a distance divided by a time dx by dt.
And that's an improper ratio.
So I want to build up what I call shape dynamics using only ratios of, of really, I would save
lengths.
That's all I think you need.
You could probably just get by or you can get a very long way with a very interesting
theory just using points in Euclidean space.
And another controversial statement that you make in the Janus point is that momentum should
not be treated as equal to position.
This if true and if accepted would upend our notion of everything from classical Hamiltonian
dynamics to the quantum, quantum dynamics that are predicated on such kinds of conjugation
relationships.
So I want to ask you, you know, what has been the reaction to that statement?
That is a very provocative statement.
And you admit as such in the book that your, your, your courage is undaunted by the arrows
that you might take, but maybe they won't do any damage because they only carry momentum
after all and momentum is not real.
So what do you mean by this, that momentum should be kind of a, you know, treated with
a lower priority perhaps than position?
Well, let me say first of all, there is a, a mathematical way of dealing with a phase
space with, which has an odd number of dimensions.
It's called, I think a contact structure.
So there is a mathematical way of dealing with these things.
And I think the whole problem with this is that people haven't taken Mark's idea seriously
that really what happens locally is somehow rather is governed by the whole universe.
So Mark conjectured that the local inertial frame of reference in which Newton's laws
are formulated is determined by the whole universe, by the masses in the whole universe.
And when you do that, time really in that classical picture, before we attempt to get
the quantum mechanics, time, time in that classical picture is just somehow an average
of how all of the quantities have, all of the separations have changed.
So you can have a separation of all of the things.
So just put out objects on the table and move them all a little bit.
Then each of them will have moved a certain amount relative to the, all the others.
But the totality will make a sort of background quantity and then each of them will have a
proportion of how much it's moved compared with the others.
So you can always ascribe to an individual particle what proportion of the change of
the universe it has done compared with all the others.
So its momentum is a fraction of all the others.
So that's again coming back to the ratio.
So I would say in classical mechanics, if you really want to have something that locally
looks like a momentum, you've got to say it's the measure of how much it has changed its
position compared with how much all the others have changed their relative positions.
So that then takes us back to this ratio or gauge-free description.
But I also think, Julian, I often say mathematics is highly abstract in that you never seen
a triangle.
We can only visualize a triangle.
I always say, if somebody says, no, triangles are real, I say, what is a triangle way?
And that's a nonsensical question because triangles are collections of three non-coal
linear color connected points, which are themselves of zero dimension, which is kind of mind
boggling for humans to envision.
So it's curious to me that you can build up shake dynamics and the reality of dynamics
and even concepts like the Janus point from something that's purely imaginary that you
would have to admit doesn't exist in reality.
I mean, you can't hand me a triangle.
You can ask me to visualize it, but can a computer really handle it?
No, because a computer has only an approximation, a quantized level, to approximate a point
as one over the largest number in its memory bank, right?
So to what extent can we build up reality on things that are purely fictional or created
by the human mind, perhaps?
Well, two comments about that.
First of all, I think I think all of the great concepts in mathematics are suggested by our
experience, and they're idealized from that.
And I think the real numbers are a human creation, but I would say let us work with them.
I had a few years ago, I had a discussion with Gerhard Toft, the Nobel Prize winner.
I've met him a few times.
We had actually about an hour long discussion, and he was telling me about his ideas.
His ideal is to build up everything from zero and the positive integers, nothing else.
So I said, you're then like Dedekind, who said, you know, God created the integers,
so the rest is the work of man.
Mention work.
So then I said, yes.
So then I said, yes.
But why don't you accept the real numbers?
Because the real numbers are a creation of man.
Man is part of nature, and he smiled.
And I think he accepted that that was not an unreasonable point of view.
So we have to start with somewhere.
And I think there's that there's a wonderful saying of Popper, the philosopher, about there
is no really sound empirical foundation of what we do in theory.
We just drive down piles into the swamp until they make a reasonably secure platform.
And we work on that until we have to drive the piles further down.
So that's very much my attitude.
So I will happily for the moment accept the real numbers and Euclidean
and Romanian geometry.
And let's see how far we get with that.
Now, a new concept for me, at least, you may have written about it elsewhere,
is this concept of N-taxi.
Can you explain that and how that is an improvement?
Because it must be an improvement upon what we think about as entropy
and the ability for systems to convert energy into labor or work, etc.
So what is N-taxi?
What does it do for us that entropy does not do?
Well, let me go back a bit into the essence of the book.
I mean, a major part of the book.
Thermodynamics and statistical mechanics was born out of the study of steam engines.
This absolutely wonderful book that Sadi Karno published in 1824.
His aim was to make a steam engine with maximal efficiency.
What was the maximal efficiency that could be obtained?
And the key thing about steam engines is the steam has to stay in the cylinder,
essentially, in a box.
Now, you read any of the papers of Clausius, who first formulated the second law
of thermodynamics, of Maxwell, of Boltzmann, even up to Willard Gibbs.
They all start off by saying, we imagine things like billiard balls
or atoms or molecules that are bouncing off each other, but they are in a box
and they bounce elastically off the walls of the box.
And the whole of statistical mechanics is based on this concept of a box.
And Clausius's wonderful definition of entropy in the second law, that requires
a very careful passage from reversible passages from one equilibrium state
to another in a box.
It's absolutely crucial.
He couldn't have defined entropy without that box.
And I have read quite a lot of the literature on the problem of the origin
of the hour of time, what entropy is and so forth.
And, you know, I have not seen one single place where anybody has said,
does it make a difference if the box isn't there?
It's quite extraordinary.
But when you start thinking about trying to define entropy when the box isn't there,
you're in a completely different ballpark.
If you say that the energy of the universe is conserved,
and I think that's a reasonable assumption, then you can't do all of the wonderful things
you can do in thermodynamics and statistical mechanics.
It's change the entropy by compressing the box and things like that.
So you've got to look for some other quantity which defines a state function.
So the key state function in statistical mechanics is the energy.
And then you see you count how many microstates there are for a given energy.
And that's not that much difference when you've got a quantum system.
You count the in a given interval of energies, how many quantum states there are in that interval.
But in all of those cases, you've got some system which is either in a box or itself confined.
