The Janus point is a startling new glimpse into an alternative theory of not only the
origin of the universe, but of the origin of the arrow of time itself, suggesting that
one of the greatest mysteries in all of physics could be solved with a revolutionary new proposal
from Julian Barbour, who is today's guest on Into the Impossible.
Come along and experience this journey in what Lease Mullen called a rare combination
of humanity and a perspective coming from a lifetime of the study of history and philosophy
of cosmology, Julian Barbour writes a book that is both a work of literature and a masterpiece
of scientific thought.
Come along on this journey into the impossible with me and author Julian Barbour.
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
Hello everybody and welcome to a very special episode of the Into the Impossible podcast
featuring renowned physicist Julian Barbour who is reaching us all the way from the United
Kingdom and this is entropy month and time month on the Into the Impossible podcast.
We had on Jeremy England, who is not English, but he was on to speak about his book Every
Life is on Fire and we have Carlo Revelli who's written many books on time and we'll
have Craig Callender's wonderful book who wrote a graphic novel about time, but today
we're talking about a very provocative and new theory of time and the origin of our wonderful
universe with a real legend.
This is such a treat for me.
Julian Barbour is joining us.
How are you doing today, sir?
Oh, very well, thank you and for a change we've got lovely weather here.
It's been a very mixed year weather wise, but it's very pleasant today.
I even took this news for an hour in the garden.
No, that's lovely.
Yeah, we are experiencing what is known as June gloom, even though it's July, we should
be frying in July, but in San Diego right now we've got May gray and June gloom and
it's very disruptive, but we will make it do.
You guys deal with it 300 days of the year.
We can take a couple of days of the year.
So I'm just going to read your bio from the book which you kindly sent to me about six
months ago and I keep postponing it because of various activities and I wanted to give
it the depth and attention that it deserved and Julian Barbour is the author of Highly
Regarded the Discovery of Dynamics and the Best Seller End of Time Phenomenal Book.
He received his PhD in physics from University of Cologne in 1968.
He's a past visiting professor in physics at the University of Oxford and lives on the
edge of the Cotswolds.
I've never been to the Cotswolds.
I'm here, it's lovely and I'd love to see your garden someday and we're going to talk
about life and the universe and time, but before we do that, Julian, you're so gracious.
I want to do what I do with all of my guests who write books and that's to do what you're
told never to do, which is to judge a book by its cover, but what else do you have to
judge a book by when you see it for the first time unless you know the author?
I want to ask you, how did you come up with the title and the cover design of this wonderful
new book?
I came up with the title and that will come out in our discussion, I think.
The cover is entirely the work of basic books and the UK edition, perhaps I can show you
the UK edition, which is also quite striking.
There's the cover of the UK edition.
Oh, wow.
There's the back of it.
Roger Penrose saw that cover and said he thought it was a very clever cover.
Yes.
So Roger, you've done me proud.
No question of it.
Yes, it is a lovely work and it's a work of art as well and I recognize many names in
here, including TJ Kelleher, who I guess was your editor, one of your editors.
I've known him for several years myself, but I wanted to begin by discussing the notion
of time and where does it come from because I've had on Carlo Revelli, I've had on many
Frank Wilczek, and I always have these solipsistic or tautological definitions that I am forced
to use, such as time is what clocks measure according to Frank, time is what increases
entropy or is associated with the increase of entropy according to Carlo, Clausius and
others.
What does time mean to you?
What is time fundamental?
Is time emergent?
And what do those two terms mean in the context of time?
Well, I've been thinking about time now for close on 60 years and my ideas have been evolving,
I have to say, but I certainly started off quite by chance in the autumn of 1963.
Quite by chance I read an article about what Dirac had said about the structure of Einstein's
great theory of general relativity, in which he questioned whether four-dimensional symmetry
was a fundamental feature of the physical world.
And sometime after I read that, I said, well, if Dirac is saying that, shouldn't we start
thinking about what time is?
And then I very soon came to the conclusion that if nothing changed, we couldn't say that
time passed.
So the primary thing is change.
What Mach said was it's utterly impossible to measure the changes of things by time.
Quite the contrary, time is an abstraction at which we arrive from the changes of things.
And also in Mach, it was from Mach I learned the insistence he had on the relativity of
motion or position that you define position relative to other objects.
And really, ever since then, I've been thinking, my question has been, what is time?
What is motion?
And I'm still working on that.
And I've got a wonderful group of collaborators now, some are in their early 20s, then I've
got some in their 40s and another very good mathematician who's about 60, I guess.
So it's actually speeding up now, these things.
Let me make one comment, though, about Einstein, if I may.
Of course.
When Ernst Mach died in 1916, Einstein wrote a very handsome obituary of him.
And among other things, he quoted that passage about time that I've just given and described
it as a gem.
But if you look through all of his works, everything he did and what he wrote, I don't
think you'll find any attempt by Einstein to put that into reality in his work.
And when he was asked what is time, I think his answer was very much like what Frank Wilczek
said, it's what a clock tells.
But he didn't.
But then, which I think is very significant, in his autobiographical notes in 1948, he said
when he'd created general relativity, he'd committed a sin in that he'd introduced two
quite distinct things.
One was the space-time manifold with a metric on it.
And then completely independently, he admitted that he was bringing in from outside rods
and clocks that measured it.
And he said that's inconsistent.
The rods and the clocks should emerge out of the fundamental equations of the theory.
And he never did that.
But in fact, I think one of the things in chapter seven of my book, I do explain how
at least within Einstein's theory, rods and clocks do emerge.
And that indicates strongly that they don't exist near the Big Bang.
So I think we have to rethink very radically how we think about the conditions of the Big
Bang.
Because there aren't any rods and clocks there.
Right.
And I'm wondering if there's anything there, there, or equivalently at the singularity
of a black hole, I want to start maybe even more proximate to that point in time, if it
is indeed even a point, with a question I've posed to all of my guests, including Sir
Roger after he won his Nobel Prize.
And that was whether or not singularities should be taken seriously.
Because we know of no process in nature that is infinite, that has unbounded size, magnitude,
density, temperature, energy, infinitesimal, length scale, et cetera, et cetera.
And yet we talk about things like singularities.
Somebody said, singularity, black hole is where God is dividing by zero or something
like that.
But we don't really know the correspondence of things that are infinite, but we do know
things that are zero.
And I want to ask you first, you make a large discussion of what you call the royal zero.
Is that somehow going to play a role in a new conception of how we should think about
singularities?
How does the royal zero figure in?
It's the most unique number because it's a number that is scale free.
It doesn't need a rod, as you say.
It doesn't need a clock, as you say.
There's something special about zero.
What role does it play in the Janus Point concept?
In, well, we would really have to go into where the title of the Janus Point comes from.
So this goes back to the first qualitative result in dynamics discovered by Lagrange
in 1772, when he was studying the three-body problem that gave Newton such terrible headaches,
the Earth, Sun, and the Moon.
And what he showed was that if the energy of the system is not negative, so it's either
zero or positive, then in the distant past, the size of the system is infinitely great.
It comes down to a finite value, and then it rises up again to an infinite value in
the future.
That's in the standard sort of Newtonian idea of time going from past to future.
But you could reverse it because time reversal symmetry.
And that point of zero size in the Newtonian representation is what I call the royal zero.
But basically, I would say, when I went to study mathematics at Cambridge, they said,
what is the equal sign in an equation mean?
It means that the two things on the two sides of that equal sign are exactly the same.
It's equality.
So in some senses, it's saying that there's identity.
Now in fact, I would say rather more than the size, I now think shape is the really
fundamental thing.
And one should think more about, in fact, I would even say that size is a gauge degree
of freedom.
It's something we've put into physics, which shouldn't be there.
So I'm going to start with my famous triangles.
I'm always illustrating things with triangles.
So if I had just three points, three bodies in the universe, and there are the apex of
the, sorry, the three vertices of the triangle, it's meaningless to say what the size of the
triangle is because there's nothing outside the triangle to measure its size.
So all you can speak about is the ratio of the lengths of the sides or the angles.
And if you think about it, we don't see lengths.
We see angles because when we look at the sky, when we look at Iran's belt, we see that
it subtends about a few degrees.
But that's a fraction of four pi the whole way around the sky.
I think it should probably should be two pi, shouldn't it?
Four pi is the area.
So the thing that I'm saying is that if you just look at what the shape does, I don't
think, I suspect there are no singularities at all.
And is that a fundamental aspect of an error or problem in relativity or in our concept?
As I know, and I want to talk about artificial intelligence, the problem, Julian, is that
I have about 10 hours worth of questions to ask you and I have about an hour and a half
scheduled with you.
So we'll try to be brief, but we'll also try to come back to it.
But I don't know that infinities should be taken as seriously as they are, and yet they're
sort of treated as sacrosanct in physics.
And we talk about the Big Bang Singularity.
We talk about a black hole's Singularity.
These are unobservable.
We'll get into falsification later on.
But this notion that something infinite can go to become something finite has kind of
been resolved or at least addressed since the time of Zeno and his famous parrot.
So what extent is if infinity, if zero is real, I guess the question would be one over
infinity.
Why is that not real?
Well, one over zero, so yeah.
One of the problems I'm facing in talking with you now, Brian, is that my thoughts have
developed quite a lot because writing that book was tremendously stimulating.
And you may have noticed that at the end of chapter eight, I hesitated a new idea about
what time is.
So let me help me get into it.
Let me talk about these very remarkable solutions in Newton's theory, because I think they
illustrate how perhaps cosmology, the way we think about the Big Bang, should be completely
changed.
Now in Newtonian theory, it's been known for over 100 years that if you have point particles
interacting in accordance with Newton's laws, it is possible that they collide all together
at their common center of mass.
And this is called a total collision.
And in the three-body problem, whatever the masses of those particles, they can either
do it on a line, and that was discovered by Euler, or they can do it, when they collide
