out of the study of steam engines. And in a steam engine, the steam must stay in the cylinder,
which is effectively in a box. And the main starting point I have to completely rethink
the whole story of the entropy of the universe as opposed to systems within it. I mean, the laws
of thermodynamics certainly hold in my kitchen where I'm sitting now. But do they apply unchanged
to the whole universe, which I don't think is in a box. So that's my starting point to rethink
the concept of entropy. So if I start with the simplest model I can, which is the Newtonian
theory of point particles interacting through universal gravitation. And right back in 1772,
the great mathematician Lagrange was studying the three-body problem, Earth, Sun and Moon.
And he found a very important result, which was, it was the first qualitative result in dynamics.
It was in the infinite past, as you think of it in Newtonian terms, the size of the system,
that's its moment of inertia, is infinitely great. As time passes, it gets smaller and smaller. It
comes down to a minimum value, a minimum finite value, and then it increases again to an infinite
value. And I call that minimum point the Janus point. Now, if you have lots of particles at that
Janus point, the system, the particles are more uniformly distributed than on either side of
the Janus point. And in addition, as you go away from, and they're moving more or less like a swarm
of bees in a random way, so you would say there that their entropy is maximal. It's very much like
a lot of atoms in a box or a free gas in a box. But as you go away from the Janus point in both
directions of time, the system breaks up into clusters and becomes much more ordered.
And those, that degree of clustering can be measured precisely by quantity, a scale invariant
quantity, it's a pure number that I call the complexity, that defines direction of time,
bi-directional arrows of time away from the Janus point. And rather than the universe getting more
disordered as you go away from that disordered state at the Janus point, it gets ever more
better ordered, clusters formed, Kepler pairs form and go around each other in beautiful elliptical
orbits. And so I would say this is an indication that we've got a completely different story when
we think about the whole universe not being in a box, because the, it is just quite different.
That Janus point is not there for some path hypothesis. It hasn't been had to, nobody's had
to add it to Newton's equations to put it there. It's there as a direct consequence of Newton's
equations, as long as the energy is not negative. And even if it's negative, you'll get something
like a Janus region in virtually all the solutions. So this, the main claim I make in the book,
and I don't necessarily tie it to that specific Janus point model as a second one,
where it's only half of that Janus point, so to speak, is that this just puts a really
fundamental question over the whole idea that the arrow of time corresponds to the growth of
an entropy of the whole universe. And that to explain it, you have to say that the universe
started in a very special way. And some of the notions that I've talked about on this channel
have to do with not Popper's version of falsification, which I always point out Popper,
actually thought that the steady state model or the quasi steady state model had some virtues.
But actually the virtue of epistemological concision and austerity, parsimony, etc., but
primarily not necessarily due to falsification, but nevertheless due to the ability for current
day evidence to shed some light or some Bayesian confidence on our models. Are there predictions
of the Janus point paradigm that would lead us to have more faith in it? And is there anything that
could falsify it, this notion of the fundamental nature of dimensionless objects and sort of gauge
free objects? Is there anything that could lead more evidence to it that exists currently or could
exist in the future? Or is there anything that could prove it wrong in your opinion?
I think there is real hope. And this relies on not taking that particular model that I showed
where the size in the Newtonian picture remains finite, but it is actually zero. And now there
are these very, so the basic idea that my collaborators and I have been following for
some time is to use Newtonian theory to get some idea of what might be happening in general
relativity at the Big Bang. Because remarkably in Newtonian theory, and it's been known for over a
century, that there are situations in Newtonian theory, if you have a whole lot of particles
that are interacting with Newtonian gravity, they can all collide instantaneously at their
center of mass, at the common center of mass. And that's called a total collision.
And by time reversal symmetry, you can reverse the direction and then it becomes what I call a
total explosion. And the very interesting thing about such a total explosion is that it has to
start in a very, very special way. It has to start when the particles are in what is called a
central configuration. The shape is very special. And there's one of those possible shapes which
is extremely special, which is the most uniform state that the universe can possibly have. It's
not exactly uniform, but it's very uniform indeed. And then as you go away from that total explosion,
this quantity that I call complexity, the measure of the clustering
grows. In the classical theory, it fluctuates and it grows. And now, if something like this happens
in general relativity, in a quantum form of general relativity, I think this could indicate that the
universe of necessity, the law that governs the whole universe, starts in the most uniform way it
possibly can, but with certain small fluctuations which then grow. And if you leave out all the fine
details, this is broadly what we know about the universe. So I think there is a hope that if these
ideas could be developed further in the context of general relativity, it would lead to precise
predictions about fine details in the microwave background. And that would be
be a great triumph if it could be done. We spoke earlier about the Borg-Guth-Felanchen
theorem and whether or not that could be leading cosmologists to a low-entropy
state of the universe. What are your feelings about the Borg-Guth-Valanchen theorem, which
sometimes improperly is called a singularity theorem? As Valenchen himself has said,
it doesn't really predict the singularity. And as Sean Carroll has pointed out, there are
alternatives to thinking about it. And perhaps the best way to think about it is when classical
GR breaks down. One of the virtues of the Janus point paradigm is that
you only need Newtonian mechanics, essentially. It's very generative and classical general
relativity. But I wonder, can you steelman your opponents and say what are the arguments that
you believe are valid that motivate a quantum theory of gravity?
Well, I think it's in the first place, I would say it's a quantum theory of the whole universe.
That's what we need. I mean, certainly you and I couldn't be talking to each other if quantum
mechanics wasn't governing the way things behave. That's for absolutely sure. There's photons coming
off my laptop screen showing your smiling face in California. That's an absolute miracle.
So I do believe we need a quantum description of the whole universe. But the point I keep on
making is that the idea that the universe has a size which is somehow measured by something
outside the universe is just, for me, that stinks. I think it's just not tenable. If the
universe is a self-contained object in Einstein's theory, if it's spatially closed, then any size
it has must be some intrinsic size that's from measuring rods within it. And therefore, the
only thing that one should look at is the shape of the universe. And I don't think anybody is
thinking about that. Well, sometimes Roger Penrose is talking a little bit along those lines,
but certainly not in the way that we are. So if you actually look at what the shape of the universe
is doing, when you have these total explosions that start from a very uniform shape, this suggests
a completely different way of thinking about cosmology, that the universe starts uniform.
You don't need inflation to make it uniform because it must start uniform. That's the nature
of the law of the universe. And it's a time asymmetric law in this case where we have a
total explosion. It starts very uniform and it just goes on growing, getting more structured,
the structures increase. And that matches exactly what we see. If you look through any telescope,
that's the story the telescopes tell you. And when we look back in cosmic history, we see after
an early period, very brief period of radiation domination, the universe became matter dominated
and there it stood until five billion years ago or so when it started to accelerate. How does
entropy behave and how does the Janus point reconcile the relative deceleration of the universe,
if not a contraction, still the arrow of time and so forth? How does that behave in a universe with
multiple components, just taking matter and dark energy, which we know to exist? How does that
reconcile with the Janus point paradigm?
Let me say, I have to call it, it's the half Janus point paradigm. The theory starting with
the total explosion in the standard picture with size, it's where the size is zero. But I would say
size is a gauge degree of freedom. What you should think of is the universe starts with the most
uniform shape it can possibly have. Now, rods and clocks don't exist anywhere near the Big Bang.
They come into existence later on as the universe evolves. If the universe is all
tightly interconnected as a Machian relational picture of the universe says it should be,
then I think it's quite possible that the accelerated expansion of the universe is actually
not really there. It's because we don't realize that the rates of clocks are affected by how
clustered the universe is. It is interesting that the accelerated expansion seems to have begun
more or less at the phase at the epoch when the universe was becoming significantly clustered,
clumpy, inhomogeneous. So that's a very tentative idea, but I think it's not impossible. We do know
that Dirac thought that the gravitational constant was time dependent. Now we know that's not,
that's ruled out. But I think it could be that there's an overall effect of the,
it's not understanding the way clocks work. And also, I mean, I do think there must be a
quantum description of the universe, but the rules of quantum mechanics that we find about us,
I believe are emergent. So they don't, the universe, the quantum mechanics of the universe
doesn't look like the quantum mechanics of the objects, the things we study in the universe,
in the laboratory. And that is matched with the origin of inertial frames of reference. And
Mark said, the law of inertia, the inertial frames of reference, they don't hold in
bland absolute space and time as Newton imagined sort of a translucent block of ice and a clock
ticking away, independently of anything that's happening in the universe. Mark said, somehow
rather the fact that the law of inertia is something due to the action of all the masses
of the universe on each individual body. And that is the theory that I've elaborated with my
Italian collaborator Bruno Bertotti back in the late 70s, early 80s. And I think that is the
definitive implementation of Mark's principle, Mark's idea. And I think it's entirely possible
that something happens with quantum mechanics that the local quantum mechanics we see with
Hilbert space and operators and all that is an emergent effect from a rather different
quantum mechanics of the entire universe. I see. And I think the last kind of topic that
I want to get into is this very provocative statement that you made that that position
is fundamental, but momentum isn't. And I wonder if you can answer that in just one second. I want
to remind people we're talking to Julian Barbour, a renowned cosmologist, a true remote mentor to
me and many people. I'm sorry to tell you, Julian, you have influenced me to the good,
hopefully. So I'm going to ask you about the primacy of space over time in just a second.
You're going to call us stop at some stage. I can talk to you to the end of time, which could
be a long period of time. So Julian, now what I would love to do with you, if you will indulge me,
is go into the impossible. This is when I asked my guest to honor me by coming on this podcast
with kind of the big picture topics. We discussed a lot about your knowledge, which is the word
science in Latin, ciencia means knowledge. But now I want to talk to you about your wisdom,
your sapienza. And if we could do that, I would be quite a great thrill to me. So would you mind
talking about the so-called big picture questions that I always love to ask my guest now in the
into the impossible segment? That's fine by me. Yes, I'll do my best. Okay, here we go. So the
first one has to do with sort of a concept in Judaism or in the philosophy of my religion,
which has to do with what's known as an ethical will. So many, many decades from now,
when you reach the biblical age of 120 years old, and as Shakespeare said, and you quote many times
from Shakespeare in this wonderful book, The Janus Point, you depart again, not for 50 years,
please, God or nature or Janus, if you will. I want to ask you, what do you want to put
in your ethical will, not your not your knowledge, but your wisdom to leave for future future heirs
of the ideological kind, which I count myself as one. Yeah, well, I did, I did, let me just,
I did make just a few notes because it's quite a challenge. Yes. So first of all, when I was
in my late teens, I got very enthusiastic about antiquity and the above all the Greek authors.
And I picked up from them two Greek sayings, in all things moderation and know thyself,
know thyself is at the Oracle at Delphi. And certainly, I think I have, I've certainly done,
I think, quite well in, in all things moderation. You know, I never smoked, I never drank
excessively and things like that. I had one of us. And so forth. Know yourself, know thyself is,
is, is harder. I'm not sure quite how well I knew myself. Perhaps I could say that I was, I used to be,
not terribly seriously, I used to be bipolar and didn't know about it. You didn't read about those
things when I had it. But by great good luck, I was put on medication back in 2004, after I had
been psychotic, which has completely eliminated all traces of me being bipolar. You might not
thought it at times in my thing. But it's, it's a miracle. It's the, it's the medication they used
to give to epileptics called Valproate. They don't understand why it works for epilepsy. It's an
anticonvulsant. But it is definitely stabilized me once I went on to it through a trial, I joined
a trial and it cured me. So now I think I do can say I more or less know myself.
So a thing, the other thing that I, I did, I was very lucky in going independent. And I think I was
lucky in my father, he'd been an independent Arabic scholar. He actually became deputy head
of the Arabic service of the BBC. And he may have been a bit of a role model for me. So
I would say don't be afraid of being going independent. I, when I got really interested
in the nature of time and motion, I decided not to go into academia. I decided to go independent.
Felix Birani, a noticed, noted, noted relativist, I asked him what it's like being in academia. He
said, if you can do the administration, give the lectures and write one or two good research papers
a year. Yes. If you have doubts about any of those three, no. And I immediately, it was clear to me,
it wasn't for me because I wanted to study the nature of time and motion. And there was no way
I was going to produce one of two good research papers a year. So I went independent and I
deliberately took up the most boring job imaginable, which was translating Russian
scientific journals into English. I got into it by chance. I'd learned Russian as a hobby.
And would you believe it? For 28 years, I translated those journals, but it gave me a
salary at least as good as a professor. And I had a third of my time to do exactly what I wanted.
Wow. And I reckon an interesting thing is I reckon I generated about 70 million words in English.
Now, and those are all on library shelves around the world. Now, if you ranked humanity
in order of how many words they generated, which are on library shelves, where would I come?
I think I've got a sporting chance to be in the top 20. I think you do. Yeah, I think you do.
It was desperately boring, but I opted for that against trying to set up a, because a lot of people
say they'll make a business, make their fortune and retire at 35. And I said to myself, if I try that,
I'll get so hooked by the business. Better to have a boring job where I'm desperate to get
away from it and think about the physics. And it worked. And then in 1996 on the 19th of May,
I said, I'm not translating anymore. And I've been free now for 25 years. And I've had 25 years
with really good collaborators, top-class collaborators. And the ideas are still coming.
And I'll say one more thing, perhaps one, there's a wonderful stand-up comedian, Paul Merton,
in this country. And he published his autobiography a few years ago. And I heard him interviewed on
radio, because when I decided to go independent, my family and my wife's family from Germany said,
you're taking a huge risk, Julian. And Paul Merton decided to become a stand-up comedian
when he was 16. And in the interview on the radio, he was asked, didn't that feel risky?
And Paul said, it didn't feel risky. It felt necessary. And I suddenly realized that was
exactly what had happened with me. So my ethical will would be, if you really feel something is
necessary, perhaps have the courage to go for it. And I've never regretted it.
And so then one other thing I will say, you asked, what was the best job I had?
Somewhat the best job I had for four and a half months, I was a weather observer in the Canadian
Arctic. By some chance, I got a job just exactly, just a quarter of a mile inside the Arctic Circle
at Bathurst or Bathurst, Bathurst Inlet. It's one of the beauty spots in the Arctic. I was there
for four and a half months. And all I had to do every three hours, I had to do five minutes work,
which was make a weather observation. At least there's consistency there. It's like San Diego,
