BKL scenario when it's quiescent, if you're familiar with that, Brian. So the great triumph
of inflation was to give these fluctuations, the Harrison-Zeldovich fluctuations, out of which
then all of structure in the universe developed. And the key thing about the early universe was that
it was very uniform, but there were small fluctuations with a very definite structure,
the scale-invariant spectrum. And the reason why we've come, my collaborators, and eye to this
picture of this total explosion in the Newtonian theory was a challenge by a cosmologist at Oxford,
Pedro Ferreira, to see if in Newtonian theory we could find hints of an alternative to inflation,
because inflation has its triumphs and they're well-deserved. But it's very difficult to see
how it gets started. And my understanding is there's some uncertainty about how it ends and
whether there's internal inflation and things like that. Now, if these ideas are right,
if and when we get to applying them to general relativity, I would suggest there will be
absolutely no shadow of doubt how the universe starts. And it should make very precise predictions
that could be verified in the CMB. So there's definitely hope there. And it would surely be,
I think you have to admit, for all the triumphs of inflation, it's a bit shaky on its foundations.
There's a lot of argument about how you get from this very symmetric bunch Davis vacuum to
astronomers actually seeing a real universe which breaks the symmetry. There's a lot of
question marks over inflation. Now, if, and it's a big if, of course, and it may be decades,
if we're on the right track, I think it could be decades before we've indicated.
But if we do come to vindication, it will be a clean sweep. We will start with a very uniform
universe of necessity. It will start very uniform and then it will get more varied in a very definite
way. And that would be, of course, quite a nice triumph. Indeed. Yeah, I think of inflation more
as a, as a theory of structure formation than a theory of the initial conditions of the universe.
And that avoids, you know, having to think about both its lacunae in terms of inability to explain
itself without the existence of the multiverse, which I find, you know, personally, more to the
unpalatable side, as my viewers will undoubtedly recognize, and sort of a almost tantamount for
a replacement of a godlike fiat instantiation of the universe with an infinite number of creative,
you know, forces like many bubble universes. But nevertheless, it is very successful. And one of
the things it does predict is that there should be a stochastic background of primordial tensor
perturbations or gravitational waves, which are obviously one of the key targets for experiments
such as our simons observatory and other projects around the world. And the hope is that, you know,
these could be measured. And that would somehow lead to confirmation of inflation, although which
inflationary model and which multiverse kind of scenario that is not specified. But it makes a
concrete prediction. It may not be observable. The waves may be too feeble to leave an imprint.
The inflation may have occurred at a low enough energy scale that even though it did occur,
it won't produce anything that we could see. In the Janus point, I assume there are no
gravitational primordial tensor perturbations. In the Newtonian model, certainly not, that's for
sure. There may well be in general relativity, but a lot of work has got to be done on the
general relativity side of this to really begin to make progress. But I think it is definitely
possible there could be gravitational waves. And as opposed to the present situation where
a magnitude is unknown, it's the R parameter, isn't it? This should make a definite prediction,
I think. But this would require understanding of all the forces of nature. I mean, there is talk
of this new fifth force. I mean, it probably would be a complete package. But there's hope,
there's hope. And all I will say is it's a completely different way of thinking about these
things. And it's a very simple one. It's just a very clear straightforward idea to say that
if the universe is, I should say, if the universe is spatially closed, there's nothing outside it,
then you shouldn't talk about the scale of the universe. And everything should be expressed
in terms of ratios. I don't think you can have a simpler, more secure foundation for conceptualizing
about the universe than that. And on that basis, once you do that, things change dramatically.
Let me go back to Kepler. So when Kepler thought about the observations of the comet
that Tico Brahe had made, he thought that that implied that the comet must have gone clean
through the crystal spheres that carried the planets. So nothing was carrying the planets.
And he said, henceforth, the planets must find their way through the void like the birds through
the air. We must philosophize about these things differently. So I see this claim that get rid of
size, it's a bogeyman, it's potentially causing all these problems with singularities and things.
And if you stop and think about it, if I may say so, it's blindingly obvious at least it should
be questioned at the most fundamental level. I think it's, I will go as far as saying it stinks.
So one concept that's gotten a lot of attention lately, and even I spoke with a gentleman, Dr.
Stephen Meyer, who supports intelligent design, and we had a lively debate about that. But nevertheless,
was this board-gooth-Velenkin theorem that posits that any expanding space-time had necessarily a
beginning or ultimate boundary sometimes misidentified, according to Velenkin, as a singularity.
But more properly, I think, identified by Carol and others, including Velenkin afterwards, as a sort
of the breakdown of classical general relativity. So one of the virtues, I think, of your scenario is
that it doesn't require quantum mechanics to be reconciled with gravity. And I always say that
until you hand me a letter from God, and it says you have to marry, there has to be a quantum
description of relativity with, that's commensurate with all of our other classical and quantum
theories of electromagnetism and quantum electrodynamics. The only two regions where it seems to be
relevant are near singularities, which are unobservable. So we have this kind of uroboros,
the snake eating its tail, that we need quantum gravity to explain singularities,
but singularities only exist in regions that are in practice and, in principle, unobservable.
So I wonder if you can take the other side, Julian. Do you think, argue against your position,
in other words, a steel man, what do you think are the best arguments that we need,
that we have to have a theory of quantum gravity? Do you think it's, there are arguments to be made
that support the necessity of a quantum theory of gravity, or is it just kind of part of the
appeal that human beings have to make everything classical quantum? What I feel definitely is we
have to have a quantum theory of the whole universe, because, I mean, otherwise, I mean,
the facts of quantum mechanics around us, I mean, you and I couldn't be talking like this,
if it weren't for quantum mechanics, that's absolutely clear. What I do, I mean, everybody
thinks, I think virtually everybody in the field thinks that the problems of quantum gravity are
at their most extreme at the Big Bang and also in black holes. And for a long time now, my
collaborators and I have been saying, no, the quantum theory of the universe will take its
simplest form at the Big Bang, because its shape is at its most uniform. And the quantum issues
will become interesting later on. And we know they're damnably interesting now. And they seem
to be interesting in black, the evidence from black holes is that they're interesting by then,
I mean, with the work of Beckenstein and Hawking. So that's how I would put it.
And, well, that's all I can say, I think, that we're looking to turn this upside down.
There's an interesting thing, I know, color are very, very, very well. And I've also talked
quite often with Abe Ashdikar, and quite a number of years ago, this might be 20 years ago or more,
I said to them, do you think quantum gravity will require a first of all, to be in the first place,
a quantum theory of the whole universe, or only of a part of it? And both Abe and Carlo
unhesitatingly said, no, we can start with quantum gravity in a part of the universe,
we don't have to have a quantum theory of the whole universe. Now, with my Mahian
convictions that you have to talk about the whole universe, I disagreed on that one there.
So that that would be where I would disagree with with Carlo and Abe. I think Lee has more
sympathy. Lee is of those three founders of loop quantum gravity, Lee is closer to my position,
I think, than the other two. Yeah, I agree. I think the thing that, you know,
perplexes people and is sometimes used by proponents of intelligent design and
proponent religious practitioners is to use this board, Guth-Lencken theorem,
and use it to basically motivate a beginning, which would then, you know, be in harmony with the
Torah or Old Testament description in Genesis 1.1. Interestingly enough, that Fred Hoyle
used to criticize cosmologists to support the Big Bang as being overly concerned with Genesis,
which I think is laughable nowadays. People don't associate cosmologists with being fervent
Bible beaters. But nevertheless, people do use this theorem. And Lencken himself says things
that he doesn't actually believe it leads to a singularity, but he does say that the entropy,
according to the behavior of entropy in the observable part of the universe,
is many orders of magnitude lower than its maximum state. And the second law of
thermodynamics says that the initial entropy of our co-moving region on this boundary, not the
singularity, but the eventual boundary that all spacetime geodesics terminate on going backwards,
must be lower still. So the universe must have originated in a very special,
non-random state of extremely low entropy. In your mind, I mean, what is the
lacuna, the gap, the problem with Lencken's claimant that necessitates a new interpretation
of time itself? In other words, armed with GR, armed with an expanding spacetime, you don't even
need to say it's inflation, although obviously, Volenkin and Goothe are huge supporters of that.
But nevertheless, if you just have an expanding spacetime, you'll go back to some point in the
past and you'll achieve lower and lower entropy. And the question, of course, is that who ordered
it to be zero in the beginning? But that's, you know, so I guess I'm asking, what are the
failings of that theorem, the singularity theorem, which is a misnomer of bored Goothe and Volenkin
that your theory rectifies? Is it that it's purely geometric, it's scale free, it's gauge invariant?
Is it that it's more an interpretation, a difference rather than an actual physical
prediction? Obviously, they would predict inflationary gravitational waves
because they support inflation, but you believe inflation is not necessarily mandatory.
So what are the virtues of the approach that you've taken over there succinctly as possible?
Well, I come back again, I'm going to get verging on religious now.
Okay, it's okay. We've had on rabbis and the Christian scientists.
I am very, very struck by this idea that the universe does have a beginning, but it's a very
uniform beginning. And out of that then structure grows. Now, I recently checked out the etymology
of the word creation. Do you know what it is as a matter of interest?
Creation, the word in Latin or?
What is the etymology of creation? Well, I'll merge from or something like that to emerge.
You're quite close. It actually comes from an Indo-Germanic word, which means to grow.
It's nothing to me, it's not Creazio ex nihilo, it's to grow. Now, if you think about my idea that
the universe starts very uniform, it's like a flat field with soil, just a little bit of
variety in the soil. And then out of that, the grass and the bushes and the trees grow.
And the quantity that measures that growth is, I come back to this extraordinary in the Newtonian
theory in the point particle model, the quantity that measures that is this complexity. It does
everything at once. It's the size of the universe, it's the intrinsic size of the universe measured
by rods within it. It's the potential energy made scale invariant. I think it's a very good chance
it's got that it's time. So in fact, I would say time is creation because the amount of creation
is literally the time. It's the potential energy made scale invariant. It is really actually rather,
if I may say so, an attractive theory, it'll be a pity if it's wrong.
Well, at least you're not saying what Einstein said on the occasion of the 1919 Eclipse,
saying that he would feel sorry for God if the data didn't bear him out. I want to turn to a
different epoch in the universe when it's matter dominated far away from the radiation domination
of the extremely early universe. Now it's matter dominated and it's growing at a certain rate,
but the rate of change is not accelerating yet because dark energy is subdominant.
How does that fit in? How do you have periods of contraction or relative deceleration of rods and
clocks in your model? How can that accommodate the observations that we know the universe was much
less rapidly, differentially relatively speaking to today, accelerating compared to what it is
doing now and will do into the far future? I'll be very speculative here and just suggest that
perhaps the acceleration of the universe might be an artifact of not treating scale properly.
So all I will say is that first of all, it's clear to me that clocks come into existence later on
in the universe. It's quite interesting and very significant in this, the universe is as it gets
more clumped and matter gets more concentrated into galaxies and stars and things like that.
And I think it's quite interesting that the acceleration seems to have set in more or less
at the time, broadly speaking, when the universe really started to become significantly
inhomogeneous. So maybe, I mean, Dirac and others conjectured that the gravitational constant was
not constant. And in fact, when I was first collaborating with my Italian collaborator,
Bertotti, back in the 70s, it was still experimentally an open question whether the
gravitational constant was time dependent, as Dirac had argued. Now that's been ruled out.
However, I don't rule out a connection between the increasing clustering, the
growth of black holes, the increasing number of black holes, with the rate of clocks that these
could somehow be, that could be some effect there, and that the apparent acceleration of the universe
is an artifact of that. Now that's very speculative, but I don't think it can be ruled out.
And when we look at the features of the Janus point model, I think what would be very interesting
for me to get is your thoughts on the inspiration that you talked about from Leibniz is monodology.
So how did you come up with this as an influence? What is the role that Leibniz plays in this,
besides kind of being thought of as a counterweight, if I'm not mistaken, to Newton,
who wrote the calculus as well as what Feynman, who plays a role in your book,
he called the language that God speaks. So in the one hand, we have scale free things,
you're talking about gauge invariant objects, like shapes, being a primary fundamental monad
of the universe, perhaps. But then you have calculus playing the actual role in differential
geometry and relativity and so forth. So how do you reconcile these two aspects of mathematics
and their usefulness in physics? And as Figner said so and reasonably so, that on one hand,
we need that calculus, which is inherently dimension full, but then these other objects
are more fundamental in your estimation because they're dimensionless. So how do we reconcile
Leibniz versus Einstein or maybe even Euclid versus Newton as mathematical kind of protagonist
said opposed to Einstein? You put quite a lot for me. Let me say there have been two,
sort of philosophically speaking, there have been two huge influences in my life. The first was
Ernst Maft when I read him, that was back in 63. It wasn't until 1977, so 14 years later, that I
read Leibniz for the first time. And just a few of his philosophical papers, and they made a huge
impact on me. The thing that he said was that what he was really attacking was Newton's idea of
space being something like a perfect translucent block of ice where there was no marks and
it nothing like that. And Leibniz just raises his hand in horror and says, if there's no
variety in the world, we can't see anything, we can't begin without variety. So right at the
heart of Leibniz's whole feeling is that we rely on variety, we rely on differences.
And then his idea was that to have a world that is more perfect than any other one,
it should be maximal variety, the variety. So in the monodology, he says that the
universe is more, we live in a universe that is more varied than any other possible universe,
but subject to the simplest possible laws. And I found that a very attractive idea. And Leigh
Smolin took it over very enthusiastically. And between us, we developed an idea called maximal
variety, which still lives on. Now, interestingly, about seven years ago, I had an introduction to
the man who had just retired as the editor of the Leibniz papers. It's a colossal project.
They got to volume 50 when I had lunch with him in Hanover. And he said, and I told him in my
enthusiasm for that idea of Leibniz. And as I recall, he said to me, well, Leibniz actually had
two ideas. One was that the universe is eternally more varied than any other possible universe.
And the second one is that it's striving to become ever more varied.
We talked a lot about some of the novel concepts in the book. I wonder if you could just briefly
recapitulate the two that are most significant to me are really in contrast to the so-called
past hypothesis, which in essence inserts by Fiat, the low entropy state of the early universe.
What is the replacement of such a phenomenon in the Janus point concept?
The first thing to say is that the whole notion of entropy developed with thermodynamics
