So what do you do if you've got a system which can expand freely like we think the universe is doing?
So I've there is a quantity which I call the complexity,
which is an extraordinarily interesting quantity.
It's the ratio of the mean square length of all the separations between the particles
divided by the mean harmonic length.
So essentially, you take the average of the long distances in the numerator
and then you take the average of the short distances in the denominator.
And that gives you what I call the complexity.
And it's a measure of how clustered a system of particles is.
It's also very remarkably the Newton potential, the Newton gravitational potential made scale
invariant by multiplying by the center of mass moment of inertia,
which is half the trace of the inertia tensor.
And this is a very, very interesting quantity.
And it is something you can call it the intrinsic size of that universe of those particles.
So we've got a finite number of particles because the distances between the small particles,
you can regard them as little rulers, which are measuring the whole size.
So if I come to my triangle again, I can take its shortest side
and use it as a ruler to measure the longest one.
So the triangle has its own size, it has an intrinsic size.
And that same thing, I think, could actually serve as a notion of time.
And all of this would be in terms of pure numbers.
And that complexity in the Newtonian classical theory, when you go from that Janus point of mind,
or from a total explosion, that complexity in the classical Newtonian theory fluctuates, but it grows.
And that's what I call a state function which grows.
And then if you look in these Janus point solutions,
you find that the number of microstates in the volume of what I call shape space
actually decreases, it does not increase.
So I define a quantity which I call in taxi,
well, it was coined by my collaborator Flavio Mercati,
which behaves in exactly the opposite way to entropy.
So when you take the box away, everything is turned upside down.
You have to, as Kepler said in a different context,
we must philosophize about these things differently.
And so that complexity goes on increasing forever in a Newtonian system which is unbounded.
And as it does that, the universe does not get more disordered, it gets more ordered
because you find that Kepler-Payer's form, for example Kepler-Payer's form,
and when a Kepler-Payer forms, I'm going back to when Einstein didn't say what a clock is.
When you're at that Janus point, the particles are uniformly distributed
and they're moving more or less randomly with respect to each other.
But then in both directions away from the Janus point,
the particles cluster and very often they will form Kepler-Payer's
and as that Kepler-Payer forms, its rotation period becomes the period of a clock,
its major axis becomes a rod, and the direction of the major axis becomes a compass.
So you've got a Kepler-Payer, which is a rod, clock and compass all in one,
and relative to it, you can see that the other particles, if they're single particles,
are moving in accordance with Newton's first law.
So this is actually exactly showing what Einstein wanted to understand.
Where do inertial frames of reference come from?
And what are rods and clocks?
They emerge out of a dynamics and this can all be done with systems
which have zero energy and zero angular momentum,
which is what a Muckian treatment of a universe requires.
Everything falls together into place beautifully.
Wonderful.
So the next topic I want to talk about is the notion of a
acyclic universe or a cycling universe, a collapsing universe.
These are literally as old as time, much older than the Big Bang concept,
dating back to Egyptian cosmogenes and other concepts,
which date, you know, thousands of years before the Common Era.
I want to ask you the classical objection.
If I tell a normal person on the street who happens to have an advanced degree
in general relativity, if I say I'm talking with a renowned scientist today
about his theory that predicts that time can go in two directions
at a single point and the universe's life cycle, they'll say,
well, Tommy Gold explored these back in the 50s, 60s and 70s
and ruled them out in some sense, or they were ruled out
because of the problem of dissipation of entropy and the unbounded nature
that every cycle in the universe would compile more and more entropy.
Does the Janus point share anything in common with the cyclical,
bouncing, Aeon, does it have anything in common?
Or is it fundamentally different from those conceptions of cosmogenesis?
I would say it's fundamentally different.
And I would say the main significance of that Janus point idea,
which I'm increasingly thinking serves its main purpose is to undermine the idea
that the arrow of time is due to increase of entropy
and also to undermine the idea that you have to impose some special condition
in the past, a past hypothesis, as David Albert calls it,
to explain the growth of entropy.
So when I showed that example of how the three-body problem behaves,
and it's exactly the same however many particles you have,
that is nothing whatever that special point, that special Janus point,
is not there because of some extra condition
that I've had to put in on top of Newton's laws.
It's a direct consequence of Newton's laws.
Virtually, certainly every solution that is not, doesn't have negative energy,
has that behavior.
And moreover, as you go away from the Janus point,
the universe gets more clustered in both directions.
There's a precise way to characterize that clustering by a pure number.
And those defines directions of time.
Those are arrows of time that are nothing whatever to do with statistical arguments.
It's nothing whatever to do with things,
all lots of microstates being bundled up together so that you can't see what's happening.
It's just, I think one of the main things I feel really confident about
what I put in the Janus point is that it undermines the standard story
about the arrow of time needing some special condition in the past.
And moreover, the increase of entropy is what's going on in the universe.
I argue that what is going on in the universe is increase of structure.
It's getting more interesting.
And if you just look at me now as I'm pontificating Brian,
compared with what the universe was like just after the Big Bang,
I think I've got a point.
It's got a lot more interesting and a lot more structured.
And maybe people are just blind to this.
I think one of the reasons, so the point about thermodynamics,
it seemed to rest on such wonderfully secure foundations,
the impossibility of making perpetual motion machines.
But it's still all of its concrete results, all of the solid results rely on that box.
You read Willard Ibs's great book published just before he died.
He essentially requires, he's talking about Hamiltonian dynamics and the system must have,
the phase space of the system must have a bounded measure.
That's essentially putting a box in.
And if you take that away, it's just everything is different.
But then I think now increasingly I'm coming to think that much more interesting
than the Janus point solutions is the ones where it's really.
So that's when in the Newtonian representation, the size remains finite at the Janus point.
But if you have these total explosions, which come out of in the Newtonian picture,
out of zero size, and if you take out the size story, it comes out of the most uniform shape
that the universe can have.
I think that's much more interesting, but it still defines an arrow of time.
The arrow of time is just the universe is going from being extraordinarily uniform
to getting ever more varied.
And that's actually what you look around at the universe and the evidence
from what the astronomers find.
And this wonderful telescope, I think you're involved with.
Well, all of those ones down in Chile.
Just look at what they look like.
The heavens proclaim the glory of God or something.
They proclaim my idea that the universe is more interesting.
So let's discuss what have been called the theoretical virtues by Michael Keyes.
No relationship to me, but he has a paper called Systematizing the Theoretical Virtues.
And he talks about what makes a good theory and what differentiates it from an inadequate or
a subpar theory.
And it goes a lot deeper than the Popperian falsification rubric.
It's much more thorough.
He does involve certain things that I find controversial, such as
your theory should strike scientists as beautiful as that's a virtue.
As your countrymen, Paul Dirac said, it is more important to have beauty in one's equations
than to have them fit experiment.
I wish I was with, you know, as an experimentalist, I take personal umbrage at that statement.
I don't believe it.
I also don't believe that experiments should be held up as the sine qua non of whether a theory
should be should be at least grappled with.
And I use the example lately of Maxwell in 1860s when he was coming up with the unified theory
of electromagnetism and his famous equations.
He wanted a mental model which if employed and taken seriously would have led to the
falsification of his ideas because he believed in vortices and gears and and ether and all
sorts of things.
So imagine if experiment if Carl Popper were around back then.
Oh, no, no, no, that's there's no little gears.
There's no little worlds and vortices.
So your theory must be wrong.
No, so that's not that's not fair.
And to be fair to Popper, he said things like he appreciated the steady state and he appreciated
other models staying around longer, perhaps then the history might judge them to be valid
because it impels people to make observations and you want to test some of the other theoretical
virtues I want to confront you with.
And you mentioned, you know, observation and we're going to get to that.
The first one with the virtues is explanatory depth.
Your theory should apply to a wide range of scenarios if it is correct.
It should also explain data and the final kind of virtue that I'm going to talk about is adequacy.
Your theory posits causes that account for the effects of the data.
And of course, that relies on evidentiary data being available.
So I want to ask you, what are the observable or evidentiary consequences of the Janus point
scenario, whether or not, regardless of whether or not we can currently detect them, as you say?
Well, it certainly it says that there will be an arrow of time, a very profound one,
that it will be inescapable.
It will be, you know, the dominant feature of existence in the universe will be that we
will be aware of an arrow of time.
So I think that's a good start.
And when we look at data in the universe, of course, you know, we want to be cognizant
that could also be applicable to the past hypothesis, which actually by fiat, which we
physicists, you know, find abhorrent, but nevertheless, you could also say that that
hypothesis gives us an arrow of time.
It doesn't give us two hours of time.
And so my question to you is, are there pieces of evidence now respecting Popper that could
disprove that?
Because obviously it's consistent.
If I was putting on a critics hat, I would say, well, that's a retro addiction, Julian.
You're trying to come up with a theory that provides an hour of time.
But what new, like what can we tell my future grad students and your grandchildren, etc.
What can they look forward to doing to providing evidence or falsification of that scenario,
given that we all believe there is an hour of time that we experience?
Is there another, is there a consequence of the data, you know, some limit on black hole
masses, some limit on minimum number of generations of leptons?
Is there some piece of data of evidence that could substantiate it beyond the
retro addictive nature of the existence of an arrow of time?
The best hope I have is not for those Januspoit ones where there's two sides, but where I have
these total explosion ones, where in the Newtonian picture it starts with zero size.
But the way I think about it, it starts in its most uniform shape.
And I think this is where we have the best chance of really making some progress,
because if this idea is right, I think it should provide a clear alternative to inflation,
that at some stage should be testable, because it would show up in the CMB,
in the data in the CMB. Because what is out of that theory, all that we've got at the moment
is the Newtonian theory, but we can see a good chance that something like it will happen in
general relativity. That we're using that Newtonian model of a total explosion starting
with great uniformity to try and get some idea of what might happen in general relativity,
because there's great uncertainty about the Big Bang at the moment. And in a paper by my
collaborators, Koslovsky, McCarty and David Sloane, they make the first progress to showing
that something similar like that can be expected in general relativity. It's related to the
