It's a very radical conclusion, and the problem is it's very hard to see what's wrong with
the argument.
The argument seems like a good one, and it has seemed that way to everyone who read this
paper since 1972.
Today we're talking about an absolutely revolutionary paper published by a philosopher
named Peter Singer in 1972.
The name of the paper is Famine Affluence and Morality.
And the basic idea is that the moral stance that you have, your attitude towards your
moral obligations and the things that you may or may not do in your life, and the attitude
that all of your friends and all of your relatives have, the general moral outlook that everyone
around you has, is deeply and profoundly wrong.
And the crazy thing about this paper is that, on the surface at least, it's very persuasive.
He seems, Singer, seems to be right.
It seems to be, once you go through the argument that he lays out, it seems to be that we need
to completely rework our entire society.
And more specifically, forget about society for a minute.
You need to completely rework your life if your life is going to be a moral one.
And sort of what makes the paper so radical is that I can say all of these things, that
the thesis of the paper is that you need to completely rework your life without knowing
anything about you.
I know virtually nothing about your life and your moral outlook and your values and the
kinds of things that you do on a day-to-day basis.
I can basically make some assumptions about my audience, general assumptions.
You live in a broadly capitalistic society, let's assume.
There are government regulations and that sort of thing.
And you live sometime in the beginning-ish of the 21st century.
That's basically enough.
If that's true of you, then Singer thinks that your whole life needs to be reworked
if you're going to live in a morally acceptable way.
Okay, if we're going to understand this argument, then we need one distinction to start out.
This is a technical distinction, but there's really only one technical term.
Here you go.
We're talking about the distinction between the super-erogatory and the obligatory.
Imagine this, you're getting together with a group of friends or coworkers or something
like that and you decide, you know what, this is a pretty early gathering.
It's a pretty early meeting.
And so wouldn't it be nice if I went and got everyone some coffee and danishes because
some people are going to be rushing out of their house and they're not going to have
time to eat breakfast.
And so when everyone shows up, surprise, surprise, there is some coffee and donuts and treats
or whatever that you brought for everyone and you paid for and you're just giving it
to them and you say, hey guys, I brought these for you.
I want you to have them.
That act, that action is super-erogatory.
It's extra.
It's super.
You didn't have to do it, but it was a really nice thing to do.
It was an extra thing that you did and it was a good thing to do.
It was not obligatory.
Something is obligatory if you have to do it.
So if someone is assigned in the group to bring coffee and breakfast to every early
morning meeting and you signed up, you promised, you committed to bringing coffee and breakfast
on that day, well then bringing coffee and breakfast is obligatory.
And of course it would be nice if everyone thanked you for bringing those things even
if you agreed or promised to do it.
It wasn't extra.
It was something you had to do.
You had committed to it.
You were obliged to do it.
One more example just to bring out this distinction.
And this example may date this video.
It may give you a sense of when I'm making this video, but anyway, at the time of the
recording of this video, there's something going on in supermarkets where when you check
out in the supermarket and you're paying for your groceries or whatever, well there's
some of the payment is obligatory.
You have to pay for the things that you are buying, but then there's this extra payment.
They say when you're checking out, they're like, would you like to donate $1 to and then
they name some charity?
Would you like to add $1 to your bill here at the supermarket?
That additional payment, that's extra.
You don't have to do it.
It's up to you.
It's super-erogatory.
If you do do it, it's good.
That's a nice thing that you did, right?
But you didn't have to.
Super-erogatory.
That's what that word means.
Okay, here's the claim of this paper.
The claim is that there are these organizations that exist in the world now.
Now in 1972, says Singer.
These organizations like Oxfam and UNICEF, these are organizations that take money from
people who live in relatively wealthy places on the planet.
They take that money and they use it to do amazing things for people who are suffering
under things like famines.
If there's a famine in some place in the world, there's not enough food and people are literally
starving to death.
They are dying because they don't have enough food.
So someone donates a little bit of money and these organizations take that money and a
very high percentage of that money with a great deal of efficiency gets transported to
this other place on the planet where there's a famine and literal people's lives are saved.
Normally we, you and I and all of your relatives and all of your friends, everyone in our society
and our broader society, we think of these sorts of acts, giving charity in this way,
giving money to Oxfam or UNICEF or whatever.
We think of these things as supererogatory.
Giving to charity is supererogatory.
It's nice, it's good, but you don't have to do it.
If on any given occasion you don't do it, you're not a bad person, it's not like you
failed to live up to some obligation that you had.
The writer says, no, here's an argument that proves, Singer thinks, that giving to charity,
giving extra money to famine relief, if you're affluent, if you have extra money, is something
that you must do.
You must do it in the same way that you must not murder or you must catch someone.
If they're falling and you can just reach out your arms and catch them and save them,
you must do it.
That's the thesis.
Okay, so Singer has an argument for this thesis, an argument for this conclusion, but we're
going to get to the argument in one minute.
First let's just skip to the end of the paper and see his statement of that conclusion.
Here's what he says.
Here's what Singer says, because giving money is regarded as an act of charity, it is not
thought that there is anything wrong with not giving.
The charitable man, or if we want, because this was written in 1972, we can say the charitable
person.
The charitable person may be praised, but the person who is not charitable is not condemned.
People do not feel in any way ashamed or guilty about spending money on new clothes or a new
car instead of giving it to famine relief.
Indeed, the alternative does not occur to them.
What's the alternative?
The alternative is not getting those new clothes and not getting that new car and instead taking
that money that you would have spent on new clothes and just, well, wearing your old clothes
and taking that money and giving it to an organization that will help people, that will
save people who are dying of famine.
That possibility, the possibility of not spending money on luxuries, does not occur
to most people or to virtually anyone.
This way of looking at the matter cannot be justified.
This way of looking at the matter is the way that we all look at the matter.
That is, we think that giving money to famine relief is super erogatory.
It's nice.
It's an extra thing that cannot be justified.
The only thing, according to Singer, that can be justified, and we're going to get to
the argument for this conclusion, the only thing that can be justified is the way of
thinking where you think that giving to famine relief instead of buying new clothes or a new
car or whatever, giving to famine relief is obligatory.
That's the only way of thinking that can be justified.
The upshot or the punchline is this.
If you don't give to famine relief, Singer thinks, you've done something wrong.
You've done something evil, bad.
Every time you buy new clothes that you don't absolutely need or you buy a new car when you
could just drive your old car or you buy a cup of coffee that someone else made for you
because it's more convenient for them to make it for you and it tastes a little better than
if you were to make it at home.
Every time you do any of those things, you're doing something wrong.
You're doing something bad.
We don't think this way.
No one in our society, not in 1972 and even though this is a super famous paper, you've
maybe never heard of it and so it didn't seep into the whole society even now, right?
People don't think that buying new clothes or buying a cup of coffee from a coffee shop
is a bad thing to do, an evil thing to do, a wrong thing to do, but Singer thinks that
it is and here's his argument for that conclusion.
Okay, here's the argument.
Singer doesn't lay out the argument like this with four premises and one conclusion or anything.
I'm pulling these out of the paper, but this is indeed the argument.
Here's how it goes.
Let's take it one step at a time.
One, if it is in our power to prevent something very bad from happening without thereby sacrificing
anything of moral significance, then we must morally do it.
That is, prevent that very bad thing from happening.
Okay, that's premise one.
I'll just give you a hint.
This is going to be the most controversial claim, right?
It's a very general claim.
It's talking about very bad things.
It's got this big category of very bad things and then it's got this other category of things
that you might sacrifice that are not of moral significance.
That's another big category.
It's a big grand claim about what you must do morally and it's a very general claim.
So one is going to be the most controversial claim in this argument.
So we'll come back to this.
If you're looking for this claim, by the way, in the reading, then go to page 235.
There's one big paragraph in the middle of page 235 and this claim happens, not phrased
exactly like this, but basically like this, at the sort of end of that paragraph.
Anyway, let's keep going.
Step two, hunger, disease, and other sources of suffering, disability, and death are very
bad.
Okay, those are some examples of very bad things.
We see how this is going to connect up with the first premise, right?
We've got a bunch of very bad things and it's said in the first premise that if it's in
your power or if it's in our power to prevent something very bad, well then we've got to
do that thing.
We've got to prevent those things.
So these are going to be the things that we're going to need to prevent this argument's
going to claim.
It's just specifying some very bad things.
And premise two, by the way, seems totally plausible.
Hunger, disease, and other sources of suffering, disability, and death are very bad.
Yes, that's plausible.
Hunger is very bad.
Real hunger, where someone doesn't have enough food to eat.
And disease.
And other things that cause people to suffer or become disabled or die.
All of that is bad.
Yep, okay.
Good job.
Premise two, very plausible.
Premise three, the luxuries on which we spend money are not of moral significance.
So the kinds of luxuries he's talking about are these luxuries, right?
Buying new clothes.
When your old clothes, although out of fashion or a little tattered or whatever, are perfectly
good.
