and whoever was going to go in and save the kid was going to get their clothes wet and
someone says, your clothes aren't wet.
Are you an evil monster?
You say, no, no, no, there were other people there and someone else saved the kid.
And they'd say, oh, okay, wow, that must have been something.
Let's get on to our frappe party or whatever we were about to do.
The point is, the presence of others is only relevant if those other people are going to
do something.
If they're not going to do anything, then it seems like, at least to Singer, the obligation
is on you.
If there's other people who are able to see that this child is drowning, but these other
people care a great, great deal about getting their clothes wet or muddy and they're not
going to step in to save the child and you know this and they say this to you, well,
does the fact that they're there and they could save the child excuse you from your
duty to save the child?
No.
If you show up at the meeting and you say, I was going to save this kid, but there were
these other people there and they say, who saved the child?
And you say, no one saved the child.
The child drowned.
The child is dead now.
Everyone would say, you're a monster.
You're an evil person.
You should have saved the child.
And you say, yeah, but there were other people there.
It doesn't matter.
The other people didn't do anything about it.
So that means you have to do something about it.
The fact that there are other people who could help in the case of famine, in the case of
a drowning child is itself irrelevant.
What matters is if someone else does help and then there's no more need for you because
all the children have been saved or all the people have been saved from famine.
A lot of people donate to organizations like Oxfam, some amount of money or other, but
there's still plenty of people left who need to be saved.
And so you have an obligation to them, according to Singer.
The fact that there are other people who aren't helping also, that just seems totally irrelevant.
Okay.
A few ending notes.
One, how much do we have to give?
I mean, it's one thing to give up, you know, one cup of coffee, right, made at a fancy
coffee place, right?
But do I have to give up all the coffee that I might ever buy?
Do I have to never buy coffee and never get a new car and never get new clothes?
Am I allowed no luxuries at all?
Do I have to give away so much of my money that I'm reduced to the level of the person
who's suffering from this famine or near to that level?
Singer says, maybe yes.
He considers two versions of premise one, right?
And this is more specific and it's in the paper.
I think it happens on, where does it happen?
It happens on page 231.
He considers two versions of premise one a stronger principle and a weaker principle.
And this is the weaker one, right?
According to the weaker principle, you just have to give up some luxuries.
You don't have to reduce yourself all the way down to the level that's near equivalent
to the people that you're saving.
But according to the stronger principle, you do.
And Singer actually thinks this argument basically works for the stronger principle.
You have to give up a lot.
Here's an objection, an additional objection that Singer considers.
He considers this on pages 236, 237, 238, if you're looking in the text.
This is just too demanding.
This is too much to ask for people to give up all these things.
To that Singer says a couple things.
One thing he says is, look, that is a standard, you know, objection to utilitarianism.
And Singer is himself a utilitarian or at least he's a consequentialist.
I can't remember.
Anyway, he's close to a utilitarian and he could be for the purposes of this paper.
So well, it's a standard objection against utilitarianism that it's too demanding.
But Singer just thinks that this is a very weak objection.
Maybe morality is very demanding.
The argument seems to work.
The fact that you don't like the conclusion, which is really what the too demanding objection
comes to, the fact that you don't like the conclusion is not an argument that the conclusion
is false.
He considers another argument, this is on page 239, another argument that goes like
this.
If private individuals start donating money to famine relief, then governments will stop.
And if governments stop donating money because the private individuals have got it taken
care of, well then very bad things will result.
There won't be enough money because the governments are the real source of the money or whatever.
Another response to this, part of his response is to just say, don't worry about it.
Not that many people are going to start giving.
It's not going to prevent governments from donating money.
Governments don't give that much money to begin with.
And if you give every dollar that you have, that's not enough to affect how much governments
give.
You're not going to solve this problem on your own.
And if your only objection is, hey, if I give all my money, I'll totally solve the problem.
That's just a weak objection.
Yes, you'll totally solve the problem.
Good.
Solve it.
The last objection that Singer considers, this happens on page 240 in the reading, is
the thought that, well look, if you donate all this money to famine relief, it's just
famine relief.
It's going to help these people.
It's going to save their lives.
Sure, but there'll be another famine in a few years from now.
Maybe in that place, maybe in a different place.
You're just postponing these famines.
Singer says, no, you're not.
Those famines are going to happen one way or another.
And if you donate the money to help people who are dying of this famine today, and when
he wrote this paper in 1972, there was a specific famine that he was talking about.
If you donate the money, you will save these particular people's lives.
And the fact that there's going to be more famines in the future, maybe that affect these
people, maybe that affect other people, it just seems irrelevant.
Think back to the shallow pond example.
This child is drowning in the pond.
You don't want to get your pants wet or muddy.
So you say, well look, if I save this child now, then this child is probably just going
to stumble into some other pond later and die anyway.
You would seem absurdly callous.
You would seem evil.
Singer says you would be evil.
And if you don't donate all of this money that you spent on luxuries, then you are evil.
That's what Singer says.
Okay, so I think we can agree that the conclusion of this argument is radical.
It's wild.
It seems to show that everyone that you know is a terrible person, is roughly as terrible
as someone who would let a child drown and die because they didn't want to get their
clothes muddy.
That's what the argument seems to show.
That's a new thing.
You probably don't think that you and your family are evil.
But the argument seems to show that.
It's a very radical conclusion and the problem is it's very hard to see what's wrong with
the argument.
The argument seems like a good one.
And it has seemed that way to everyone who read this paper since 1972.
There are responses to it and there are philosophers who try very hard and have very clever, careful
things to say to try to show that this argument doesn't actually work.
But at least until we get to read some of those arguments, you should try to see if there's
anything wrong with this argument yourself.
Peter Singer, by the way.
He's still alive.
I met him.
We had dinner once.
He gave a talk and then I...
Anyway, I know him.
I know celebrities.
