Or buying a new car.
When your old car, although not as good as a new car, is still a good enough car, right?
The example that I gave earlier, buying a cup of coffee when you could make the coffee
at home.
Really going to any restaurant ever, right, counts as a luxury in this sense.
I mean, you can always just, for less money, make food at home.
This connects with the idea of moral significance or of some things not being of moral significance,
right?
Sacrificing anything of moral significance.
That's part of the first premise also.
So premise three is specifying the kinds of things that aren't of moral significance.
And once we understand what singer means by luxuries, he's right.
These things are not of moral significance.
They're not a big deal.
If you go without them, you're not really worse off.
Four, by donating money to relief agencies like Oxfam, we could prevent hunger, disease,
and other sources of suffering, disability, and death.
Well, that's just saying that there's a very specific way, an easy way, right?
To prevent these things which premise two established were very bad.
Premise four, is it true?
By donating money to relief agencies like Oxfam, we could prevent hunger, disease, and
other sources of suffering, disability, and death.
Yes, premise four is true.
This is true.
These organizations do do this.
You can give them the money and then they will prevent these things.
Yes, premise four is just an empirical claim.
It's just a claim about whether these organizations actually do the thing that they say they're
going to do.
And the answer is yes, they do do it.
Okay, and then here's the conclusion.
And we've already reached this conclusion.
We've already talked through this conclusion.
Therefore, we must, must, where is it?
Where is it?
Must.
We are obligated.
It's not super erogatory.
It's not extra.
This is something you have to do.
And so the conclusion gets us something you have to do.
We must morally donate the money that we spend on luxuries to relief agencies.
And we don't get to spend them on luxuries.
This is the argument.
Okay, so now is a good time to reemphasize how radical this conclusion is.
We're about to assess the argument.
We're really going to focus almost entirely on premise one because premise one is the
only controversial premise in the argument.
Everything else.
Steps two, three, and four.
I mean, these just seem to be obviously correct, obviously true statements.
And the argument is, is valid.
So well, one is the only option that we could argue against, and we're going to try to argue
against it.
And Singer is going to say no, and none of those arguments work.
Okay, but focusing again on the conclusion for a minute before we get back to premise
one, this is pretty radical.
No one thinks that we have a moral obligation, no one, none of your friends, none of your
family think that you must not buy a cup of coffee.
You must not buy a new car.
You must not buy new clothes.
Instead, you must take all of that money and donate it to some organization like Oxfam.
One of these relief agencies.
No one lives their life like this, or very few people.
Peter Singer, by the way, he's still alive.
I met him, right?
We had dinner once.
He gave a talk.
And then I...
Anyway, I know him.
I know celebrities.
Peter Singer, who's still alive, kind of lives his life like this.
He donates a very significant, non-truvial portion of his income, which is not enormous.
It's not an enormous income to relief agencies.
He does this.
He does not live a luxurious life, not a life that we would normally call luxurious.
Okay, so there's one.
And then maybe there's, I don't know, a few of his friends who he convinced.
But most people don't live their life like this.
The conclusion of this paper is that most people, you included, are doing something bad every
day.
And you don't even realize it.
Okay, enough about how radical this conclusion is or whatever and how much it departs from
your day-to-day life.
Let's get to premise one.
This is the controversial premise.
What does Singer say to support such a broad sweeping claim?
Here's what he says.
This is a rather famous example that Singer gives to support premise one.
Here it is.
If I am walking past a shallow pond and see a child drowning in it, I ought to wade in
and pull the child out.
This will mean getting my clothes muddy.
But this is insignificant, while the death of the child would presumably be a very bad
thing.
Okay, got the example, right?
There's a shallow pond or a fountain.
When I teach this class on campus, every college campus, including the one where I work in
North Carolina, every college campus has like a fountain somewhere, right?
There's a fountain there.
A small child is drowning in the fountain and will die.
You are walking by.
You can easily step in and save the child.
The cost to you will be just a few moments and, well, your clothes are going to get wet
or muddy, right?
Muddy if it's a pond or wet, if it's a fountain or whatever.
This sacrifice, by the way, is not of moral significance, right?
It is insignificant that your clothes are going to get a little wet.
Oh, and you're on your way to something where you didn't want your clothes to be wet.
Okay, that's not a very significant sacrifice.
But the death of the child, the drowning death of the child in almost all circumstances would
be a very bad thing.
Well, the thought is go from this example.
If you agree with what Singer says about this example, and I suggest, of course, that you
if someone just showed up at a meeting and said, hey, there is this kid drowning, but
I didn't want to have wet clothes for this gathering.
So I just let the kid drown and die.
You would be horrified.
You would think that this person was evil, that they had done an evil thing.
You would not let your friends or family associate with this kind of person.
Well, if you agree with Singer about this specific case, then Singer says, we should
be able to abstract from this case to a more general principle, and you should hold this
more general principle, and the more general principle is premise one of the argument.
The idea is that, well, a child drowning in a pond, that's a very bad thing.
But it's not bad because it has to do with water or children.
An adult drowning and dying is also a bad thing, or even an adult dying by some other
means is a bad thing.
What's relevant here is not that it's a child or that it's a water-involving death.
It's that this is an easily preventable death.
The death is a bad thing, and the fact that your clothes would get muddy, that's a morally
insignificant thing, but the fact that it's your clothes and it's mud, that doesn't matter
if it's something else that you have to sacrifice.
If, for example, instead of your clothes getting wet or muddy, your, I don't know, your car
is going to get dirty, or you're going to lose your shoelaces, the shoelaces will be
gone forever.
You'll have to sacrifice your shoelaces, and you'll have to get whole new shoelaces,
and that'll be kind of a pain in the butt.
The point is this, the difference between one way of dying and another way of dying,
or one morally insignificant sacrifice and another morally insignificant sacrifice, the
difference between these doesn't matter.
So you can go from a specific case like this to a general claim like one.
And the thought is, if you agree with Singer about this specific case, then you have to
accept premise one of the argument, okay?
So there are two ways in which you might think you can't go from this example to this premise.
Or another way to put this point is you might think that there are two big differences between
this shallow pond example and the example of giving up your luxuries, the luxuries in
your life, a new car, a cup of coffee, that sort of thing, a massage.
There's a difference between this example and giving up those things to save someone
from a famine.
There's two ways in which there might be a relevant difference.
These are the two relevant differences that Singer considers and responds to.
Here they are.
Okay, here's the first potentially relevant difference, proximity.
In the shallow pond example, you're right next to the child.
You're very close to this child.
Whereas in your day-to-day life, you are not right next to, you're not near the people
who are dying of famine or of whatever other very terrible things that organizations like
Oxfam fight against.
Well, is that a morally relevant difference?
Is that a way in which we block this example from generalizing to something like premise
one?
Singer thinks no.
It used to be that proximity made a significant moral difference because it used to be that
a great distance prevented people from knowing about very bad things.
It used to be that if there was some very bad thing happening on the other side of the
world several hundred years ago, you could never know about that very bad thing or you
couldn't find out about it for months or years.
But now, now proximity is irrelevant to your knowledge of very bad things because there's
very efficient forms of communication.
You can know about a famine going on in another country while it's going on with enough time
to do something about it.
Proximity also used to be relevant before these organizations existed.
It used to be the case that you weren't able to sacrifice some luxury in order to save
someone from a famine because, well, it was very hard to get things across the world and
there weren't organizations set up that had built very efficient systems for taking a
few dollars from you and literally saving a person's life on the other side of the planet.
So proximity used to matter.
It used to be a morally relevant difference between the pond example and the famine example.
But it's not anymore, says Singer.
So this difference of proximity does not prevent your intuition, your thoughts, your moral
thoughts about an example like this from translating over to a very general claim like one.
Here's the other potential difference.
If you're trying to block this example from getting the result ultimately that you have
to give up all the luxuries in your life.
You might say, look, in this shallow pond example, we're led to assume that there's
no one else that could save the child.
There are no others who are capable of saving the child.
But in the case of famine relief, anyone could give money to Oxfam, right?
There's all these other people present and the thought is, well, in the cases where there's
all these other people present, it doesn't fall on you.
You don't get the obligation to be the one who saves someone's life when they're dying
of famine.
Here's what Singer says in response to that.
He says, look, the presence of others who could help is sort of relevant because their
presence typically leads to their actually helping.
Those other people actually helping prevent the very bad thing.
If there were other people who saw the child drowning in the shallow pond, well, then very
likely one of those other people would save the child and then you wouldn't have to save
the child.
If then you showed up at the meeting and said, hey, there was this kid drowning in the pond
