being bow-guarded by the Mormons, right?
I don't- I think the problem there is that no one who is-
if devout enough in their religion to be a suicide bomber
would take the Mormon seriously.
But they wouldn't- they wouldn't take the threat of
that sort of thing and purifying their- their soul?
No, they'd be like,
God is totally looking out for me.
I just killed myself for the faith.
Fair enough.
There's no way that the Mormon stupid little ritual
is going to overrule the will of God.
All right, well, if it wouldn't work, it would still be funny.
So I stand- I stand by it for that reason.
Let's consult Steven for clever spiritual warfare.
And for- for funny fallbacks.
Best case scenario, it works.
Worst case scenario, it's just funny.
I don't see a downside.
The downside is then, if, like, it did work
and people started freaking out about it,
they'd start non-self-immolatingly destroying Mormon churches,
whatever those are called, if they have a special name or not.
I believe they're temples?
Temples.
Yeah, I mean, the big ones are temples.
So that'd be the downside, obviously.
Where were we?
You were going to tell us about Satan in your head.
What? Oh.
Yeah.
Satan lived in my head?
I don't- I don't know.
Like, so-
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you can't just drop that
and be like, duh, don't you guys have that?
I don't know.
So I don't think I'm schizophrenic,
at least as far as I can tell.
But like, you know, whenever my internal monologue
was telling me to do something that I knew was bad, right,
I characterized that as Satan.
And I had a lot of like weird neuroses about him telling me
to do bad things and that-
The intrusive thoughts is a fairly common thing.
So did you stop attributing the intrusive thoughts to Satan
or did you stop having intrusive thoughts?
Little of both.
I kind of just like looked up one day and I was like,
oh yeah, I don't really think that anymore.
That's not like a problem.
And it used to be like, you know, like a main aspect of my psyche.
Maybe I am schizophrenic or I was or something.
I have this weird theory that like mild schizophrenia
is like really good to be like in a religious context, right?
You're just like, oh yeah, you're connecting with the divine, right?
You don't recognize that part of your internal monologue
as part of you because it's not a part of you,
it's part of the spiritual realm interacting with your brain.
So yeah, I don't know.
And I feel like those are things that you can probably
like train in and out of existence.
Have you guys heard of Tulpas?
Yeah.
Yeah, right.
So that's basically like somebody giving themselves
multiple personality disorder, right?
It's fucking terrifying.
Yeah, right.
So Tulpas are basically like you like train
like a new separate personality inside your brain
that only you interact with.
It sounds like a bunch of like 12 year old edgelords
doing this kind of shit when I read about it.
But look, I don't have kids because I do not want to be
responsible for another physical being.
Now I have one in my head like fuck.
Well, yeah, that sounds like that sounds like
they're just training themselves into like this sort of,
I'd argue, unhealthy behavior.
So I think you can probably do the same thing
with voices in your head or whatever.
Maybe it's what a lot of people do with Jesus.
Yeah, right.
That's kind of my theory.
I'm kind of just blown smoke right now.
But I don't feel like that's a super important thing.
I feel like that's pretty common for people
to feel like Satan is talking directly to them.
Or, you know, calling them to do bad things, right?
Is that not a common thing?
I just kind of assumed it was.
I have three quick thoughts on that
and I'll think I'll take them in mixed order.
So one, I think it is a very common thing
and it gets different names.
I think if you're raised in a really just context,
it could be, especially if you're told explicitly
the bad thoughts are Satan trying to corrupt you,
then you internalize it.
I'm pretty sure I was.
I don't remember that specifically.
So I think then it makes a lot of sense,
but everybody has intrusive thoughts,
whether it's like, you know,
randomly laying about it with your partner
and just like this random image in your head comes up
of like you strangling them to death
or like driving down the interstate
and be like, I could just swerve into traffic
and kill myself and have it out with people.
Or, you know, or just voices saying,
you're a shitty person, you deserve to die or something.
So some people, depending on your upbringing,
might call that Satan.
A psychologist would call them like intrusive thoughts
and that could stem from depression or other things
or if it's really destroying your life,
that could start coming into characteristics
of schizophrenia.
But yeah, I don't think that it's a sign
necessarily of diagnosable neurosis
to have thoughts like that.
If they're destroying your life.
I don't think so either.
I feel like I'm pretty normal.
Yeah, and if they're destroying your life,
you know, talk to a doctor,
but you know, I think everybody has random thoughts
like that once in a while.
Well, yeah, I mean, like I get intrusive thoughts
in the same, like, oh yeah, I could just swerve
into traffic and die right now,
but not to the sort where I feel like the voice is not me.
Right, and that might be another big component of it.
Psychedelics, interestingly enough,
you do enough of them, like a really,
really huge amount of them.
You can get to the point where like,
you're not recognizing Dionne,
like the sounds that are coming into your brain,
like you have no idea where they're coming from more.
So if there's a part of your brain
that is producing the monologue,
there's another part listening to it, right?
So if those two are separated enough.
Yeah, yeah, you get the impression it's not you.
And the ones altered enough,
or both are altered a lot.
Yeah, you're gonna be like, oh, this is like,
I'm interacting with an angel or anything else,
or a fairy or an elf.
So we've used the term spiritual experience
a few times, we've never bothered to say
what the hell spiritual experience is.
You can't, dude.
It's like describing an orgasm, or...
I could just...
Well, no, I accept that.
No, you can't.
I mean, you can try.
It just feels really good.
It feels really good, right?
Yeah, what does red look like?
I don't know.
So it's like, there are a few things that it kind of is,
and a lot of things that it's not.
And we could spend the whole time defining it.
Well, what would we say to someone
who was like a Richard Dawkins,
who's never had a spiritual experience,
and is like, what are you guys talking about?
To defend Richard Dawkins, I think has had what people,
and I think even he would call spiritual experiences.
But we could use a caricature of somebody like Richard Dawkins.
Okay.
Yeah, you could say exactly.
Here, I put some LSD in your water half an hour ago,
or in your orange juice half an hour ago.
Don't do that.
No.
No, no, no.
Don't.
You're like someone...
No, no, I'm not saying...
No, never do this.
But what you might say is like,
you're going to buckle up.
You're going to have a spiritual experience,
even if we're running this to the absurd.
If you consent to it.
Yeah.
I'm not saying...
I didn't say do it.
In the hypothetical that we're talking to this,
that'd be one answer.
If you want to explain what you mean by spiritual experience
without drugging someone.
Sure.
There are a few things I can bring up.
