Well, no, no.
That's why we do that research on identical twin rats.
Yes, if the other one starts limping.
Yeah.
Or if you're Mengele, you do it to people.
But what?
This was some of the crazy shit they did
to the Jewish captives and the Holocaust.
They would cut the limbs off one twin?
That is like really awful twin experiments, yeah.
Fuck.
I don't...
Do you remember the name of the scientist guy
that was the head of all that?
Tuskegee?
Yeah, that sounds right.
No, no, no.
Tuskegee was the United States syphilis experiment.
I don't know anything.
No, wait.
Then I'm thinking...
Oops.
That does not sound right.
Man, I am just lowering my opinion of Nazis every day.
Who knows?
Nazis could be so evil.
Turns out those guys suck me, right?
So they treated humans like rats.
And I was like, this will be interesting to find out, right?
I guess.
Yeah, sure.
But, you know, I'm not saying that there's an equivalency,
but there's...
Question.
Should the research be destroyed?
No.
I mean, it's too late now, obviously.
But when they first got the research,
should they have to destroy it immediately rather than...
I don't know.
I mean, at the very least, it's done.
If there was anything useful to learn,
then it's worth keeping around,
because we don't want to have to find out again, right?
We don't want to have to do the experiment to find out again.
I figure...
So the downside is people that were one or two steps away from that
could just still be horrified or something.
But I don't know.
I suppose it should be at the very least locked in a vault for a while
until it's like everybody agrees.
Like, okay, we're not going to cry,
because our great, great, great, great, great grandfathers
were tortured or something like that.
Yeah.
Maybe if there was centuries down the line, then unlock it.
It really depends.
Like, I don't know.
Because, I mean, like Stephen said, the damage is already done.
And it feels awful that there's nothing that's being gotten from it.
But, fucking, I, when I read The Viathan Wakes,
they made this point that if you just accept the research,
then basically the researcher has won.
He's contributed to the human body of knowledge,
which was what he was trying to do.
And it's an incentive for other people to keep doing that in the future,
especially if they're willing to, you know,
take prison time or whatever else the consequences may be
in order to make this mark on humanity.
The only way to keep them from gaining the advantages
is just destroy the data.
Or, and that'll stop people from doing that in the future.
If they know that, even if they get all this data,
and people are like, well, the damage is already done,
it's like, no, fuck it, this data's being destroyed anyway.
And so, don't bother doing it in the first place.
Or you could blast their name from all the publishings
and say this was found out by somebody who,
history will forget because they were a dickbag,
and then that person doesn't get any credit for forever, right?
Then the knowledge is out there, but they don't get to be
the person who made those discoveries.
They're already like going against a bunch of societal rules
at that point anyway, I don't think.
If war crimes isn't as strong enough like deterrent, right?
Like, you know, you'll go to prison forever
in an international prison, you know, or however they do that.
Like, if that's not a deterrent, I don't think so.
Especially not in the age of the internet,
when you can get your data out immediately to everybody.
It would be, yeah, much harder nowadays to...
How are you gonna...
But like, if they didn't put it on the internet,
if it was some guy in his, you know...
But like, if that's his goal,
then he's gonna get it on the internet.
It's going to be like...
Unless you intercept him first and destroy the data.
Like, I know it's extremely unlikely to happen nowadays,
but if it had happened, if we were the guys
making the decision back then,
I kind of think it would have been the best deal
just to destroy it.
Hmm.
I can see the benefit to that.
My initial response was kind of knee-jerk,
and I'm considering your guys' points that...
The fallout, especially for like...
You know, if it was my grandmother that got tortured,
and I was reading about like...
Oh, it turns out that...
I'm trying to think of some of the other insane shit
they did to people.
See, I'm the other way around.
And I was actually...
My initial answer was the same as yours.
I mean, the people are already dead.
Might as...
We shouldn't let that data go to waste,
but I am more on your side
if it was my grandmother or even me.
Like, if I went through all this and lost a limb and everything,
I would want the data to be used for something.
But like, as a more objective outside person,
I'd be like, no, I'm sorry.
They'll just encourage this sort of behavior in the future.
We're going to destroy this data.
And I'm sorry that you lost your limb.
I suppose that's like such a small...
I expect that to be like a really small portion
of their motivation is like...
They want to know themselves a lot of the time.
I wouldn't expect that to be like such a large portion
of the motivation that like...
Oh, no, other people might not know that I did this research.
Like, I think it's...
Again, I think it's a much smaller deterrent
than all of the other deterrents that are already there.
You're working in research, right?
Yeah.
I no longer kill rats, though.
I will, right.
But isn't the point to gain more knowledge?
Sometimes.
Okay.
Sometimes it's just for fun and curiosity, right?
I mean, for me personally,
I'd like to develop something that works,
that can then be used, right?
And so if your data...
It's not necessarily more knowledge, it's more capabilities.
If your data made it so that this thing
that you want to be working and usable
was more likely to be working and usable more fast
than objective, partially achieved?
Yeah, I guess so.
But still...
You don't give that many fucks.
But again, every scientist I know
has moral objections to that sort of thing.
Like, you're talking about like...
You have this huge deterrent of like,
oh, no, then I'd be evil.
Like, oh, no, then I'd be punished horribly, right?
If all of these other things...
Like, my name would be trampled.
My reputation would be destroyed, right?
And then I feel like normal base human sort of thing.
My data might not be distributed is like,
number eight or nine on the list of why I shouldn't do this.
Right?
But I suppose if you're crazy...
If you really are like a crazy person,
but I don't think of like the people
that were doing that as totally crazy people, I think.
No, I mean, they were working with the system.
Yeah, so...
But you'd have to be damaged
to do that kind of thing to another person.
You'd have some sort of psychological damage
to look at a person screaming, saying,
please don't be like, I'm gonna do it anyway.
My parents didn't have any problem
strapping me down and cutting off a piece of my dick
when I was a tiny baby.
Yeah, but they didn't do it because they were like,
about a malice.
Yeah, and they also didn't do it out of curiosity.
They did it because they thought it was good for you.
Well, I mean, the Nazis probably didn't...
Well, most of them probably didn't do out of malice either.
They were like, these are...
By the way, I'm circumcised.
Sorry, I understood where you were getting at.
Sorry, they're public people.
Now we all have to visualize your dick.
Hold on.
Give us a second.
Nobody knows who I am.
I'm using a pseudonym.
