All right.
Well, I can visualize your dick because I know who you are.
All right.
Do you have a mental microscope?
I'm kidding.
Oh, dude!
Go with...
Yeah.
Small dick jokes, classic.
If it works with electrons, we'll...
No, but I mean, for Nazis,
it was probably a lot like working on rats or dogs or something.
What I'm saying is, you have to have some psychological damage,
I think, to have distance between other humans and that.
My point is, like, they were working...
Yeah, they were working within some sort of system.
I don't think it's necessarily psychological damage.
I think they could just be treated in a certain way.
Do you think it would be rewarding to toss in a certain way?
What?
Do you think it would be rewarding the system to let the...
The system?
Yeah, to let the...
That system?
Yeah, I suppose so.
But, like, once you get to that point,
you've already destroyed the Nazis, right?
So, like, the Nazis aren't coming...
Sorry.
They're not really coming back.
They're not really coming back in Germany the way it was in the 1930s.
Right.
As far as I can tell.
Yes.
The Nazi party is not in power.
Yeah.
So, what were we here to talk about again?
Fuck, I don't know, dude.
No.
So, I want to...
I don't know.
20 minutes ago, when you mentioned that you were an expert on this sort of stuff...
Oh, you said...
Yeah.
I want to say two things.
One, that this might be something that's worth articulating on the air,
because I've said this in private.
But when you bring on guests, it's not always...
If they're like an expert, we'll mention that in their intro.
For the most part, we bring on somebody who knows more than us, me and Inyash.
And that's not hard.
So, like, we bring on somebody who can guide and lead the conversation a bit,
even if they're mid-level and we're entry-level, right?
And being good on a microphone is also something which I have discovered as a skill,
which I didn't realize.
Like, some people just right away freeze up and be like,
oh, god, microphone, what's going on?
And Jenkins is like, yeah, I'm just here to bullshit with you guys.
Yeah, I just mentioned circumcision offhand.
Right, right.
So, yeah.
My brothers are going to make fun of me for that.
Are they not circumcised?
No, they'll make fun of me for bringing it up,
because they know that it still makes me upset and that that's pathetic.
I don't think it's pathetic.
I'm a little bummed.
Am I sending us that sex is less fun than it would be?
It's kind of pathetic.
Like, on the one hand, I'm still preoccupied about it enough to say it on microphone.
That's the part.
If you're preoccupied enough to talk about it for five hours a week, maybe.
Maybe it'll help discourage parents.
I'm up to like six or seven.
Maybe it'll help discourage people in the future,
or parents in the future, from getting their kids circumcised.
Yeah, I hope so.
If you're still like, look, dude, fucking,
I'm in this old and I'm still pissed about it,
so don't do this to your kids.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, if I had kids, I wouldn't circumcise.
If I had a male son, I wouldn't circumcise him.
Unless it was medically necessary, in which case, fine.
Yeah, of course.
But I'm not going to cosmetic surgery on my baby.
Right.
I'm just going to tattoo their forehead.
Yeah.
Ooh, with what?
Your name?
No.
Whatever religion I'm a part of by that time.
Okay.
But are you planning on joining a religion?
I'll probably make one.
That's everybody's plan, right?
No.
No, it isn't.
No, no.
Because everyone stops and thinks, what is my plan?
Oh, God, I have no plan.
So the second part in the spirituality thing
is that you brought more books than I own on the subject.
So you could just tattoo on your baby's head.
Really?
We never actually officially introduced the topic.
We did.
We tried to for about 30 seconds.
Sort of.
Yeah, I guess, like, apparently,
Are we talking about spirituality?
Yeah, spirituality and ritual.
But we're having fun.
That's cool.
The episode got more on ritual than spirituality.
And so there was some desire to talk more about spirituality.
That's right.
The last episode we got really hung up on a couple of things,
especially about, I still don't really know what a ritual is.
So yeah, that goal was going to be kind of a hybrid.
And then it got distracted by me not understanding ritual.
And us not explaining it or tabooing it.
Tabooing would have been important.
We forgot that skill all too late.
Something about your Art of Rationalist fails you when you most need it.
And we wasted a conversation to your guys' detriment.
I don't think the conversation was entirely wasted.
But no, it was fun.
It would have been better if we remember to taboo that early on.
Also a 30 minute digression on witchcraft.
So which I don't regret having.
Yeah, that was interesting.
Yeah.
Anyway, so this one, I think in one of our earliest episodes,
we talked briefly about spiritual experiences in the context of non-religion, right?
I don't know your earliest.
Well, no, I think I've listened to pretty much all of your episodes at one point.
There have been a couple where I was too upset with the audio.
So I skipped to the next one.
Okay, man.
Our audio did use to be much better.
I'm so sorry.
No, no, that's very understandable.
It was actually the Yodkowsky one.
And I should probably go back to it.
You didn't listen to one with Robert last week then, did you?
No, I did.
That one was rough.
I just finished that earlier today.
Yeah.
Was that worse than the Yodkowsky one?
What's up?
Was that worse than the Yodkowsky one?
I think so much worse.
So much worse.
Oh, was it?
Yeah.
Okay.
I want you to try, you have the raw audio.
Listen to that and then listen to the edited stuff.
And then come on the next episode and say,
remember how bad that one was?
You should have heard the raw version.
Because Steven worked really hard to make it sound as bad as it did.
We appreciate your sacrifice.
Yeah.
It was, I'm sorry, I appreciate the sacrifice of everyone who listened to it.
It was a great conversation, but it was just hard to hear.
Anyway, so this was a fun conversation because I think that
spirituality has been bogarted by religious contexts.
Or it might even be fair to say that like they own it and we're trying to like
solve which part of it for ourselves.
Right?
Yeah.
The conversation we were having kind of before we introduced the show was about psychedelic drugs.
See, I feel weird that every time we bring up spirituality, drugs come into play.
I'm like, that's not all there is.
It's the same thing.
No, it's not all there is.
I've had a ton of spiritual experiences, especially when I was much younger,
and they never involved any drugs at all.
They don't have to, but I think one way to put it is that like,
if you take 300 micrograms of LSD, you're going to have,
I think, what Jenkins and I would describe as a spiritual experience.
How many is 300 micrograms?
Three hits.
Because I had two and a half, and I had not a spiritual experience.
I had a fun experience, but certainly not a spiritual one.
If you're of Inyosh's size, build, and tolerance, and you have 500 micrograms,
you will have an experience that you will have, I don't know, you read the accounts of people
who've had really just spiritual experiences in history or in contemporary books, and you're
like, yeah, I totally see what you guys are talking about.
Not that I believe what you, you know, it's one thing to like have a crazy experience and say,
yep, that was pretty cool.
I had a great time.
I feel like I learned a lot about myself.
It's a huge misstep to say, and now I know facts about nature that I didn't know before.
So like, it's one thing to, like Francis Collins, the, I don't know if he's still a director of
the NIH or not, but he was a few years ago, wrote that book about his coming to terms with
