I've sometimes heard of it as like a loss of ego.
Where...
Yeah, ego death is one aspect of many.
So let's say...
They feel connected with the universe,
rather than as a separate being.
And I think you can have that without the loss of ego.
And I think that would still count.
Yeah, not all spiritual experiences involve that.
I mean, mine, when God was looking out for me,
certainly didn't.
Yeah, and you know...
But then there's others that I've had,
which surprisingly were on alcohol,
where I did lose ego and was just entranced by the world.
Okay.
So here's a bunch of attributes I can attribute to a spiritual
or numinous or mystical experience,
or whatever you want to call it.
A big one would be like a sense of like cosmic unity or oneness,
or just like being...
Like the separation between like you and your situation
is not really there.
You know, I am you.
You are me.
You know, we are the couch.
I am the universe.
I am me!
That feeling where I is everything,
and me is also everything.
I think that one's pretty uncommon, though.
People don't speak about having that one often.
I'd say that's like the main one.
Oh, the main one.
No, that like...
If you're saying like, oh man,
like I felt like I was everything,
and like I was the universe,
and that's as close to like a binary.
You were, you weren't having a spiritual experience,
or mystical or whatever, as I can get.
But I mean, there's a bunch of other things.
So there's like transcendence of time and space, right?
So it's like, I don't feel like I'm within this...
Like the normal experience of time that I usually have,
or spatial understanding.
So like bliss, ecstasy,
that sort of thing would be the next one.
Just like extreme, like massive flooding
of an emotion of gratitude is really common, right?
One of the attributes is just ineffability.
It's really hard to explain, right?
If this sounds like nonsense,
well, it sounds like nonsense.
Sorry, I don't know what to do for you.
Say, here, eat this plate of mushrooms.
I was gonna say, I think you can try and pump the intuition
using examples that people can relate to.
You could ask, you know,
have you ever been with somebody that you love,
and you reflect on how much you love them
to the point where you can bring yourself to tears
by just reflecting on that feeling and the bond?
I think you love people a lot more than I do.
Well, I don't cry a lot,
but I can occasionally have an emotion about,
you know, or a physical expression of...
A physical expression.
This is my new ringtone from when Steven calls.
I can occasionally have a feeling.
Well, I'm also not huge in day-to-day
of having tons of feelings, but I can have them.
So, yeah, I sound like a robot describing it, but whatever.
But I also can have them strong enough
to where I physically express them.
But I think other people at least know what love is.
If you don't, you can find another feeling,
like gratitude or pleasure.
And say, yeah, so picture that,
but picture it amped up to a level
that you have never experienced before,
but you can at least, they have like something to start with.
So it's not purely ineffable.
You can have this moment, whether it's on a drug,
like ecstasy or LSD or mushrooms,
or just through reflecting on it,
but you think, God, I love my, whether it's my child
or my parents or my partner,
and have this moment where you think,
man, the world is full of people
who love each other that much.
And like, that's kind of a deep thought.
That can get you going.
I don't know if that has the same intangibility
as some of the quote, spiritual experience stuff,
but I think it's a good intuition pump.
I was once asked by a Christian,
regarding like the world and evolution,
how can you believe that all this made itself,
like where is the wonder and everything?
And I was like, first of all,
ignoring the made itself comment.
I was like, I think you're completely missing evolution
because when I think about the world
and how it just springs from basic physics
and the interaction of atoms in suns
brought about this world,
and then like the creation of life
and how interconnected I am with everything,
it brings me to this place where that I do feel like
that that has been some of my more adult
and spiritual experiences,
this connection with everything
and with how things manage to work out the way they are,
because of how these little tiny molecules interact.
And I don't know, I was like,
how can you think that like,
yeah, some God waved his hand and made it
is a more spiritual explanation
than the actual physics and biology that we have.
That is so much more intricate and beautiful
than I say, let there be light and there is light.
You know, that's just some dude waving his dick around.
To attest again to Dawkins having spiritual experiences,
the last chapter of The Greatest Show on Earth hits that tone.
And that's the whole point.
In fact, he dissects-
That was like his best book,
or at least among the top three.
I liked it a lot.
Really, I've only read a handful of his books,
but basically like The God Delusion got him popular
in some circles.
And but that's a book about something
that bugs him that he doesn't like.
And so the tone is very different.
I recommend Unweaving the Rainbow all the time.
That's a book about something that he loves
and then he wanted to share with people.
The Grand, or not the grand design,
The Greatest Show on Earth is another version of that.
But there's a context of like fighting back
against you know, creationism and stuff and that.
But yeah, that is the majesty of the universe, right?
And that's a much better story than, you know,
yeah, you're a pawn on a chessboard,
but the chess player loves you.
And the other players at Dick and he doesn't like you.
Like that's not a really interesting story
and either like any of the origin myths, right?
I mean, they're fun and they're culturally relevant
or whatever.
I'm not going to shit on everything,
but they're not the real majesty of the story
that science tells us about our origins
and our place in the universe is super gratifying.
And I think that gratifying, that gratification,
that sense, in fact, gratitude,
I think this is actually one of his books,
maybe it was Dan Dennett's,
that that feeling of gratitude might be one of the causes
of religion being popular.
Because like, who do I thank for this?
Like, you know, you reflect on this
and you do this without the context of science
and understanding and you're like,
where do I, who gets the props for this, right?
This is awesome.
And reality doesn't have someone for you to give props to.
So you just think, I'm just glad this happened.
You know, that's a sort of profound insight
that can lead to that sort of spiritual experience
kind of thing, right?
You spend enough time thinking on that,
and especially if you do it in a week by your,
you know, in silence under pretty trees or something,
and you think, holy shit,
this tree that I've been sitting under for the last two days,
we share a grandparent, right?
Like, that's nuts.
And that's, I'm struggling to articulate,
part of the ineffability of this kind of experience, right?
It's one thing to like understand that on a textbook,
just like you understand that the Battle of Hastings
was in 1066, like it's just like a random trivia, right?
Is that the right year?
Anybody know?
Good.
Is that the random fact that everyone always generates
when they think of a random fact,
or why is that so popular?
For me, it's because the whole sexy back song
that they redid it to Battle Hastings.
I definitely am not familiar with that.
Oh, that's great.
Perfect.
1066 Battle of Hastings, 1066 Battle of Hastings, that's great.
The way I usually break into this conversation
is like, oh, well, now that I know what a sunset is,
I can't enjoy it.
