and who they talked to,
but this sense of going somewhere else
and talking to something greater.
Interacting with, yeah, interacting with somebody, right?
Which is not super common.
If you're on mushrooms or LSD, you have to be on a lot
to be seeing other people, things or having,
it's not really the same thing.
This is a whole new thing.
Is this, would you recommend this?
You're folded into a new dimension.
Would you recommend that you not do it
unless you have someone sober around watching you?
Well, set and setting are important with,
so anytime you're gonna be doing something intense
to your mind, make sure you're in a good place
emotionally and mentally.
I wouldn't suggest these for depressed people
or people with bipolar disorder
or issues that you really need to work out
because things can go wrong more often there.
Can I weigh in there really quick?
Yeah.
Two things.
One, the cool thing about DMT,
one of the cool things is that the trip
begins and ends within 20 minutes.
It's not an all day thing where you're out of it.
So you're probably gonna die of exposure
or something while you're doing this?
Not unless you live in the South Pole.
But all of these things can fuck you up emotionally,
so that's, there's still a risk,
but I think it's really low.
We should probably wait to talk about DMT
until someone has done it.
Oh, I've done it a bunch of times.
Oh, you have done it?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, that's right.
You're showing us it's really weird.
I haven't done ayahuasca, so ayahuasca's a different way.
It's like similar, same drug,
but there's more drugs in there too,
so it's not just DMT.
Can I dive in really quick about the emotional component
or the mental background component?
So yeah, set and setting and all that stuff.
But at least from my own anecdotal experience,
I found that with mild depression,
that tinkering with psychedelics, I think kind of...
Oh, it'll help you.
Yeah.
When it's mild depression, right?
When it's mild.
So I don't know if it'll necessarily...
I don't want to say that it will help you.
But if you're like suicidal...
Right, yeah.
So I don't want to say that it will help you
because it might be...
Your mileage may vary, but getting that...
There's high potential for benefits there, I would say.
And now that the clinical study of some of these drugs
is resuming, there's clinical evidence to support that as well.
You just mentioned about...
Yeah, not wanting...
Yeah, although...
There's some actual science you can look up.
Like, one study I was reading, it was like 70% or something like that,
said it was one of the most powerful, amazing things that they...
And this was with mushrooms.
I think it had long-lasting effects.
And then the 30% that didn't like it.
And this was in a clinical setting,
so it might not have been best situation for them to be taking mushrooms.
The 30%, they didn't have lasting negative effects.
I'd say that's pretty promising.
Especially when you can control...
I'm not going to take this in a hospital,
I'm going to take this with my friends or on my own.
Or depending on what you want to get out of it,
like you can take them and go to a concert or an art gallery
or a cathedral or whatever.
Or with a therapist, maybe.
If you can get them to talk to you while you're on drugs.
Hi.
I just had to transcend...
Or with your cat, you should totally do drugs with your cat.
Don't give drugs to the cat, just hang out with your cat.
I just had a transcendent spiritual experience with your cat just now.
It just licked my hand and that was pretty awesome.
She's so cute.
Here, can I finish with how I would explain DMT?
Sure.
So first, you kind of fold into a new space.
And then you'll notice you're in a weird pulsing glowing room.
And there's this child that's sort of like a cartoon child
dressed in just pink and white.
And he's pulling something out of a box saying,
we're still in here.
And after all your efforts to get away from them by turning inside yourself,
you just turn in and inward, they're still there.
You're realizing that you have a body and you can open your eyes
and you see your brother smiling at you.
And you've noticed that you've been vibrating into the pillow,
and crying the whole time.
So is this your experience?
Totally unable to process
this full cocktail of super powerful emotions
while you're reading all this?
Yes.
This is kind of like a compound of like two or three.
But I think it gives kind of...
I'm not sure if you bolstered or invalidated every point you made tonight.
No, that's DMT.
I haven't extracted anything of strong value from DMT.
Even chemically, it's really similar to Silasyn.
Look up pictures of Silasyn, Silasyn and DMT.
You'll see that they're all very close to each other,
probably interacting with your brain in similar ways.
So DMT is endogenous, right?
So like it's produced within your body,
which makes it different than all these others.
Stop biting me, buddy.
Stop, stop biting.
Don't edit these out.
Just leave the no biting.
Hey, kitty, stop.
There's actually a cat.
He didn't have DMT.
Well, I mean, he might have had DMT too, but there's also a cat.
Well, like every living thing's on DMT all the time.
Well, I think you can find it in pretty much anything that's living.
So nothing is actually real and we're all
bringing vast that are DMT hallucinating.
Like it's all really weird.
It's very, very weird.
And again, like feels more real than real, right?
I don't know.
So that one, most of what I've gotten out of it is like,
oh, your brain can experience way weirder things than you think it can.
Like it can experience way more than that.
So I haven't extracted any more value from that.
But in this book, I was talking about,
I think there's a Netflix documentary, DMT, The Spirit Molecule,
that explains it hosted by Joe Rogan.
So you know it's quality.
So that's DMT.
I don't know if that's more or less interesting to you guys now to look into.
But whatever.
Two hours a lot.
And if we did, I don't think we had time for feedback.
Did we?
No, we definitely don't have time for feedback.
All right.
I'll build a force wrap up.
I want to thank our supporter this time.
So I get the credit and you just get to repeat what I say as far as gratitude.
Because so far it's always been you.
Right.
Because I always have the names right in front of me.
That's right.
Special thanks to supporter Tim Sharp this week.
It supports like you that keep us keep the lights on in here and keep the episodes on the internet.
So thank you, Mr. Sharp.
Yes.
And keep in mind that you can write reviews at iTunes.
You can come on the website.
You can come into the subreddit.
You can write us emails.
We read every email.
I don't respond.
We don't have time to respond.
Well, it's not time.
It's like sometimes I mean to get around to them in episodes and we don't.
Or they're for feedback and we don't always get back to them.
But everyone is read and appreciated.
So don't think that they're just being left in the inbox.
That's all I got.
Yeah.
That's that's everything.
Thank you guys for all your support and your reviews and ratings and all that.
And we'll see you next time.
Cool.
Thanks.
I hope this is valuable somehow.
Bye.
Bye.
