It's clearly not true.
Like, I know what a sunset is,
and I still think they're really pretty.
And I don't think it really has,
and honestly, I don't think like knowing what a sunset is
makes the sunset more pretty in the moment or less.
I think those are separate enough in my mind
that I don't think I really need to bring that into it,
and I don't need to bring what science teaches us
about the universe in order to have this amazing experience
with a tree or something like that.
Maybe that can enhance it.
I think it does.
I'm not going to shit on it.
Move aside.
Right, but I think that's still a few steps away from,
I don't know, a really deep internal or external feeling
that has nothing to do with your knowledge
about the situation, right?
And in some cases, I might even say,
you having, bringing in your scientific knowledge,
and you're like, here, yeah, no, I can compartmentalize this
in this way, and sometimes that's beautiful and wonderful.
It's like, okay, yeah, you can totally do that,
and then that expands your understanding,
but sometimes that's really distracting
from just the experience you're having.
The intense experience is itself so overwhelming
that if you have room to have those thoughts,
then you might be missing out on a part of it, maybe not,
but I just kind of wanted to put that in there
as a sort of almost disagreement.
It probably depends on both the person and the situation.
Right, well, and I think I do see where you're coming from,
and you're right, for me, I was anchoring a lot
in science and stuff, not because I think
that's where all spiritual experiences come from
or that's where they all need to end up, but that can be...
That science itself is spiritual.
Or can be, certainly can be.
Sure, but I think that's not the goal.
No, no, that's not the goal.
And your understanding of nature can pump those intuitions
is what I was trying to get at.
So I was trying to think of, to the most secular person,
if I was talking to Richard Dawkins,
luckily he had this conversation with us in a book,
but if I was talking to the stereotype
of the cold, unfeeling scientist, Richard Feynman,
nothing is mere, right?
Nothing's merely refracted light.
So if you're trying to destroy the beauty
of a rainbow or a sunset by saying,
well, isn't it boring now because we know how they work,
it's like, no, man, it's really fucking cool.
Are you kidding me?
Like, what's a more fun story?
Like, oh, God, that you like those colors or...
Technically, God was promising not to drown everyone
in the world again.
It'll be fire next time.
There's another understanding to take it from though
and to say, man, I really understand how this works
and my brain likes the colors and it's really cool.
And look at my angle from me to the rain over there
and the sun behind me can show me the spectrum of colors.
Like, that's really kind of cool.
Again, I don't think that's all...
And you're right, like, man, some spiritual experiences.
I think that understanding might even just distract...
Like, I think you have the feeling and then you're like,
why am I having this feeling?
Oh, the light and refraction and then you get these colors
and like, that's you kind of like running from the experience
and going into like some sort of like cognitive exercise
that you don't need to do.
You can just have the experience.
I absolutely see what you're saying.
Okay, I see how that's a disagreement and you're right.
Right, yeah.
So maybe, like, maybe just the experience is more valuable.
I think it's harder to remember if you're not doing that,
if you're not like putting it into compartments and whatnot.
And when I said that, when I said that you're right,
I meant that you're right in that you're making a point
that is absolutely valid.
Not that I'm recanting everything that I said,
but that that's a different dimension than you're absolutely right.
That is that I'm missing a huge ingredient
by not including that kind of thing.
Because you're right, if you're in a sense grounded enough
to articulate what's happening,
especially if we're talking about psychedelic drugs,
like if you're far enough out to where you can't describe it anymore,
then you're really having an experience, right?
I think I may have a far more narrative,
sort of linguistic type of thinking than you guys do,
because my best spiritual experiences have been
including things like thinking about how my ancestors viewed the moon
and how scary it must have been to be in that kind of time period.
And it would not have been the same spiritual experience
if I was just looking at the moon.
The fact that I was having all these thoughts
and relating them to culture and history
far more profound for me.
I think we're describing different kinds of experiences,
but they can both be in the spiritual circle, right?
Can you make a strong distinction
between something that's mind-blowing
and something that's spiritual?
Can you do that?
I can't do that.
So mind-blowing in the way you're like,
holy shit, I never realized that before.
That kind of changes the way I think about X, Y, and Z.
Well, no, no, it was both.
Or something, right?
I mean, the closest I can think of
is when I went to the temple at Burning Man.
That was just legitimate emotion blast
without any sort of cognitive thing going on there.
And even that's not true.
Even there, I had some...
The fact that I could think about things
and regret things
and want things
in a literal thinking about words sort of way
made it different.
And that was probably the most spiritual thing
that's happened to me in at least a decade.
I think they're a little different.
So I can read something and be amazed
and be thinking about it for years later.
The first time I read Meditations on Moloch,
that was pretty mind-blowing.
It's like, whoa, all these things that I've thought before
just in better words and artistically done
and that's a really big deal.
I'm gonna glom onto that.
And then having a really powerful experience
that has nothing to do with words
or even cognition
is basically just feelings.
They're pretty qualitatively different, I'd say.
Although there's a lot of overlap
because then when I reflect upon this...
I was extremely thankful at that time.
Like that can change the way I think about a lot of things.
There's huge amounts of overlap either way.
So do you...
I'm assuming then when you have sex
it is far more of just a physical sort of emotional thing?
Yeah, I don't always have words going through my head.
I mean, so most of the time I have an internal dialogue, right?
If we're just talking about how I think right now.
But yeah, when things get ramped up enough...
Do you remember the last time you were really, really angry, maybe?
Yes.
Okay, were you thinking in complete sentences or words even?
Was it weird grunts and stuff?
I had trouble getting home
because I could not navigate from work to home
even though I've done that literally thousands of times.
That's amazing.
Yeah, so the last time I was really, really mad
that was something I noticed.
I think that's one of the...
That's an emotion that kind of takes over a lot of the time.
I don't think a lot of people have happy just takeover.
But it's awesome when it does, it's great.
It might be a form of mania, but I don't care.
It's great.
You should just let it happen.
Well, I mean, even at the time, both at the time and looking back on it,
that is the least human I've ever felt was when I couldn't even get home
and I couldn't articulate myself or anything.
It was just anger.
That is not a thing that I want.
But you didn't have an internal monologue.
Is that what you're saying?
Were the words shut off?
You weren't thinking in the language?
There was definitely still some language in there.
Because I realized it was frustrated and simple single syllable words
because I could tell that I couldn't get home and this was an issue.
But no, there was definitely still words in there.
That's really funny.
Okay.
So I'd say in a lot of cases, yeah, you can go through that feeling a lot of different things
and lots of mixtures of different things and whatnot.
And it's not going to be like,
you're not going to be able to explain it to somebody else later
because it wasn't in words.
So pushing it through that compression algorithm is just like you can't.
It's really hard, right?
Super lossy.
I'm suddenly feeling like I may have found one of these places
that has a universal human experience I've never experienced.
Maybe you haven't, right?
Here, take this plate of mushrooms.
