So like I'm a big fan of like the heroic dose too, right?
So like what is the heroic dose?
That's like a really, really large dose, right?
So for mushrooms, it's like five plus grams.
I mean, like a normal dose is like an eighth of an ounce, whatever that is,
is like pretty normal for a night.
And that'll be like a mildly, like you might slip into something.
You might not.
Five grams is like, that's a heavy you'll be there for a long time.
If I can have ecstatic spiritual experiences
without completely taking away my linguistic ability, I'm okay with that though.
I don't feel like I need to get to this whole
wordless place that you're talking about.
No, you don't need to.
I think that's a new place that is valuable for you to go though.
I think it's a new place that's valuable for other people to go.
I can somewhat second that to the limited experience I have with that.
Do you remember when we were hanging out and I could barely talk?
I mean, I had a hard time getting my brain to talk to each other enough to
like, I mean, I was limping around like I could barely,
there are periods where I like, you know,
you'd ask how I'm doing going to give you like a shaky thumbs up.
Yeah.
But I think I just, I want to protest that I think we're losing something.
If we say to have a spiritual experience, you have to go that far.
I don't think you have to.
I think that we kind of disagreed that I was pushing hard on like the science
and understanding and being able to have that articulation
as being one kind of experience.
And Jenkins has a lot more experience while he's pushing back,
not from outside the ring, but from a different part of it.
You know, imagine if you had an experience so positive
that it was like that angry drive home, right?
I don't know, something happened and you're,
you literally can't tell your friends about it because it was just like,
I can't even describe it to you.
I just, I, I couldn't describe it to myself while it was happening.
If that angry experience was a good experience or a positive emotion,
that's kind of maybe closer to what this is talking about.
Does that hit, right?
Yeah, that sounds good.
I mean, I've had that though.
I was just able to talk about it afterwards.
Then you haven't had it, man.
Yeah, man.
No, man.
Yeah, we'll start gatekeeping on this.
Okay, so here's another one that I want to hit.
A lot of the time,
this experience will feel somehow more real than normal waking life.
So like whatever it is that makes you notice that you're in the real world
or that you're real or something,
or what you're experiencing is not a dream, right?
Yeah, it'll feel more like that.
I think that that's one of the things that,
especially religious experiences, psychedelic drugs and whatnot,
can like really fuck with your intuitions.
So like if you're interacting with some sort of like elf in hyperspace,
which DMT can do to you,
it's really hard to come back from that and just be like,
that wasn't real because it felt more real
than this conversation we're having now, right?
In a really weird way.
So you can't just rely on like does this feel real or not?
Like you can in a lucid dream or something.
You're left to your intuitions
and your intuitions are kind of fucking with you in that sense,
which makes a lot of sense why like people would like
want to die for this, right?
Like they're like, this is really, really important to me.
And be so convinced that it's true that God really does exist
because it just feels so real.
Yeah, right.
It's really hard to talk somebody out of it
when they're like feeling the presence of the Lord.
So the feeling of the sacred is another one, right?
So like this is really important.
Whatever, like what I'm experiencing now is insanely super important.
It's more important than these other things.
Similar to like it's not only is it more real,
people need to know about this.
It's hard to not be preachy about it.
I fail that a lot.
I end up like, God, no, you don't understand.
Like this is a big deal.
And it is like, I think it really is a big deal
in the sense that like it's a really big deal to me.
I can't make my experiences be a big deal to you.
That's not going to happen at all.
But for me, it opened a lot of doors in a lot of ways
that were hugely positive in like a long-term sense.
Can you elaborate on that?
For me personally, it was taking lots of mushrooms many times.
So it was like heavy doses.
Yeah, a lot of times.
And I'd say the main biggest one is like I'm a lot nicer.
There were people that liked me
and thought I was funny a long time ago.
I don't know if anybody would call me a nice person, you know, pre-20.
So like, and I know like most teenagers are assholes,
but I mean like, I like really leaned into it.
Like I was just like, no, fuck other people.
And most of that was just from like, I had a better sense of empathy.
I could connect with other people in a better way.
Yeah, so after this experience, I could, it started to bother me
if other people were feeling bad, right?
Instead of just like, I could notice it maybe sometimes.
Like I could notice it more.
And then it bothered me more if it was bad or something.
So like both empathy and compassion, compassion, right?
So like empathy is like the ability to understand what other people are feeling.
Compassion would be like the desire,
the desire for them to be feeling the best, whatever it is, that is the best for them.
Yeah, I would say-
Do you think there was just a long-term structural change in your brain brought on by the drugs?
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, I do because so, and part of it coincided with me like growing up,
you know, I like, it was around the time when I was about to graduate college and,
and you know, started living on my own and, you know, in other capacities.
And I was, I was more of an adult at that time.
So like, I can't just isolate it and say like it was just the mushrooms
or it was just growing up or something like that.
But I do think it was mushrooms played a really, really big, big part of that.
Well, I think, I think part of it too, I want to interject briefly.
One, that when I took a mild dose of LSD, that was,
and people would argue that my other dose is mild.
But for me, mild was one hit.
And that was how I tried to describe it was, you know, other than like the visual artifacts,
there was this sense of profundity to everything.
Like this feels really important.
Like, I remember we were eating lunch and I watched a raindrop hit the table.
And like, it's not like I felt like this cosmic connection with the universe or anything insane.
It was just like, that was, that was profound in a way that, you know, kind of escaped description.
But maybe what helped, and maybe tell me if I'm on the right intuition here,
that maybe one of the things that, that jog, jogs your, your empathy meter into functionality
is having stepped that side of yourself and, you know,
realize that maybe from a, from an experiential sort of way, you know,
not been you for an afternoon, right?
Um, I don't know.
Honestly, I think it was, I think it was more just being able to notice
things better and caring once I noticed.
And I don't, I don't know if, yeah, me stepping outside of myself in that sense did that.
Yeah, it's hard for me to tell.
Honestly, I might, I don't know.
Sort of the nature of what we're describing entails that it's hard for you to tell, right?
Right.
So I suppose another way I can express this is like, my like general behavior is like,
you know, life's kind of a zero sum game.
And, you know, if, if I win, it kind of means somebody else has to lose, right?
Which is, I think a super fucked up way of looking at
anything because it's, it's not true at all.
I mean, you can just think of like two separate people.
Okay.
Now they're friends.
Nobody lost in that situation, right?
Maybe one person won more than the other person because the other person was more lonely
or something.
That's a win-win situation.
I mean, basic economic theory is like lots of win-win can happen.
So that was, that was super valuable for me.
And specifically for mushrooms, I've, I've never gotten anything like that from,
from LSD on the few times I've tried it or, or DMT, DMT is just weird.
I mean, and you'll get like powerful feelings and, and interesting experiences.
And I can describe that to you in a little bit, but please do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sure.
Totally.
But I kind of want to keep hitting this point like it can, so like it can change you.
It doesn't have to.
In my experience, all of the changes I can notice are positive.
Uh, it's possible that degrading specific neuroses I had, you know, like habitual,
like negative self-talk and whatnot, maybe that eroded like some source of motivation
that I used to have.
But I don't like, I still feel like I'm a pretty motivated individual.
So if it did that, then not enough for it to cause me real problems that I can tell.
And probably worth the trade-off.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, at least for me.
And this is part of the reason why like I end up suggesting them so often is because I end up
like, I'm constantly talking to nerds, right?
Fucking nerds all around me all the time.
No.
And one thing I noticed is that like they're, they're usually like pretty sharp
and not very good at like some sort of like emotionally connecting with people
in certain ways.
Sometimes I'm painting with a broad brush here, but I think like these are the people
that I think can really, really benefit from this.
Cause it's like, oh, I can have a deeper connection with other people and, you know,
richer, a richer emotional life and better relationships and blah, blah, blah.
Like I was just better able to like notice my own emotions when I felt them
and feel like I feel more now.
So I don't know if it's just like me knowing that I'm feeling better because some people
aren't aware of this, but you can feel things and not know that you're feeling those things.
It's really weird.
Yeah, you, you, it's different parts of your brain.
I don't, I don't know how you want to say it, but, but that's pretty important, I think.
So, um, I also appreciate like music and art and like all forms of visual art,
a lot more in a stronger sense.
