I am drugs, man.
That's Dolly, by the way.
Yeah, that's it.
Anyway, I had a couple of quick things to add.
I was going to say, just to bring your point home,
we use the orgasm example as a meaningful experience is,
if you just could take a pill that would give you an orgasm
for 70 years and then you died,
that might be a life wasted, right?
It might be a fun life, but I think it's possible
to not know what you're missing out on, right?
Yeah.
Like if you're just having a ton of pleasure all the time,
you might never really know other kinds of pleasure,
like a good meal or loving somebody or something, right?
So I do think that, yeah,
if you're just find a way to stay high all the time,
you're probably missing out on experiences worth having.
But on the other hand,
if you're never high, you're also missing out on something.
Yeah, probably.
I mean, so you asked what we do with all this spirituality talk.
I think one thing is that I would like to, I guess,
propagate the idea that you can have meaningful,
life-changing experiences and talk about them in ways
that don't necessitate you having to identify
with a religious context.
So I kind of want to take back the idea that if religions don't,
if they didn't create the sense of, or rather,
if they didn't coin it,
they certainly seem like they claim to own it.
And I don't think they get a monopoly on it.
The religion is throwing a lot of things
over the course of the centuries.
Well, and I think it very well may...
They have all the pretty buildings.
It may well have started, yeah, right?
Architecture, art.
It may well have started from contexts like that.
Whether someone found mushrooms growing in poop
or someone just realized,
I'm not a practiced meditator to the extent that
I spend a lot of time on retreats or anything.
I don't even spend that much time day to day
practicing meditation, but I do introspect a lot.
And I do practice mindfulness, I think, quite a bit.
That's sort of...
I mean, there's a number of things that mindfulness does.
You know, one thing...
In essence, mindfulness is like paying enough attention
to where your thoughts come from and how they...
Where they go.
That it makes having...
It makes your internal dialogue third person
rather than the first person.
And the sense that the world is full of...
In a non-hippie way, the world's full of love.
People love their families, their friends.
And meditating on that thought doesn't take 10 years in a cave.
You can do it in 10 minutes.
And I think many people can be moved by that experience.
And, you know, then you sit behind somebody in traffic
on the interstate on your way to work and road rage hits.
And you're like, you know, this person might be a prick.
In fact, they have to be because they fucking cut me off.
But I think you recognize really quickly the futility
of that sort of wasted cognitive effort.
And if that person isn't a complete psychopath,
they have things that they care about too.
And that sense that they care about something is valuable.
So that's one thing that you can do with this insight,
that spirituality is important.
I might disagree with you fairly firmly
that I don't think it necessitates drugs.
Drugs might necessitate a spiritual experience.
But I don't think that you need to be high
or have been high to have...
Well, excuse me.
You don't have to have been high on drugs.
I needed to have been high.
Like you needed to.
The door was shut before I had gone there.
And afterwards it's...
So like I've had them without drugs, but only afterward.
And it was like clearly very reminiscent and sort of things.
So I mean, that's a big improvement too.
It's like, oh, now I can have these experiences
that I'd never had before.
And like I feel like I probably never would.
Maybe like once I have a baby or something like that,
that might be different.
Well, really quick, that brings to mind
the last point I was going to make was that,
if a drug-spond spiritual experience isn't enough
to make you a new person, like you said,
you have to put in the work,
I think it can definitely catalyze it.
Oh yeah, you feel sure.
So I mean, it might never happen without them.
It might happen in six weeks where it might have taken six years.
You know, if you just try to...
You can't fix a problem that you don't know is there.
Yeah, and so it definitely...
Or you're unwilling to admit is there or something.
Or just that you can't notice, right?
So I think it can definitely kick off a lot of those insights.
I kind of want to push back on Niyash saying like,
that's a life wasted.
It's like in a certain case, it might be a life wasted.
That's not really how I want to live my life.
But if that's something you're not willing to dedicate yourself to
is like a full, complete understanding of your own experience
and expanding that experience and having more of them,
then like what is worth it, right?
And if it's just like four other people,
it's like, okay, well then to what end, right?
Like where does that line of questioning end?
My own answer really is like, if I'm supposed to be like, be good.
This isn't a great answer at all.
But I see it as like, you need to be doing good
on a lot of different levels, right?
But like the first main one is like,
you need to be good to yourself first and foremost
before you can even really be good at being good
to the people closest to you.
And then and so on and so forth as you get to
like people in your community, people in your country
or state or whatever.
And then like people in the world,
which Effective Altruism, man, plug that.
That's probably the best way to do people on the other side of the planet.
But then you still have all those other levels
where it's like you can't just abandon your community
for the sake of kids in Ghana with malaria.
I mean, you can, but you should still going to exist, right?
Yeah, right, I would say you probably shouldn't,
but you know, other people might disagree.
But the spiritual fulfillment thing is like,
I think that's probably how you can best be best to yourself, right?
I don't think just like devolving into a bit of
nihilistic despair.
Acquiring more money to buy more money with it.
Yeah, this is really.
You don't want to become a Rick.
Right, right, right, right.
Right.
You love that show because it's so deep and philosophical, right?
Yeah.
I like that show because the fart jokes are amazing.
Oh, right.
We just agreed on it.
Yeah, you're like, oh, that was the best episode ever.
You're like, there were no jokes in it.
No, like, yeah.
Well, to be fair, you have to be very intellectual
to understand Rick and Morty.
Nothing personnel.
We totally got to have an episode
where we just geek out about Rick and Morty.
To qualify, that last line was a joke from a meme
about Rick and Morty fans.
Right, very high IQ.
We should probably wrap up,
unless you have something to wrapping up.
Well, so some people might argue,
I've never done ayahuasca.
Ayahuasca is basically DMT over a long period of hours.
It's sort of like taking an MAOI,
mono-immunote as a base inhibitor, I think.
And then consuming a brew with DMT in it,
so like it stays in your system.
I think that's how it works, somebody that knows better.
That's the one where you go down to Peru
and you purge a lot and you have a shaman beat a drum.
There's like a ceremony surrounding it,
which I think ceremony is good
when you're about to do something.
That's a big deal.
Hi, kitty.
Hi.
Oh, he's so cute.
So I've never done that, but a lot of people say
that's like the center of the spiritual
or the psychedelic experience.
It's the most helpful.
I wish I could talk more about it firsthand,
but I can't.
I have tried DMT though,
and DMT is insanely weirdly, it's just weird.
I suggest reading DMT The Spirit Molecule by Rick Strossman.
He's a scientist that works at the University of New Mexico
and ran like clinical experiments,
just like giving this to people and be like,
so like what did you see?
And huge variability.
A lot of it was people interacting with aliens
or fairies or things like that.
So wasn't that a very common response?
Super common.
So there was variability in where they went
