A quick content warning about today's episode.
We got off topic a bit, and between about the 10-minute mark and the 15-minute mark,
there's some talk about experimentation on animals, including some cases of cruelty.
It's nothing graphic, but it still might upset some listeners.
If you want to skip that, we move on to human experimentation at the 15-minute mark.
Or if you prefer, we get back on topic at about the 25-minute mark.
I'd encourage you to stop using the phrase bad trip just because
you can learn anything from even bad experiences, right?
I've heard, you know, if there's no such thing as a bad trip, just difficult experiences,
which is really euphemistic.
Yeah, it's like getting arm broken is a rough experience.
Yeah, right.
I would also call it a bad experience, but...
Right, but I think more to the point is that you can get something out of
sometimes the most out of the worst experiences.
That's been my experience lately, and it's like...
So, the experience was fucking awful.
It was the worst thing ever, but...
So, I call them psychedelic crisis.
I suppose, I don't know, that's kind of replacing.
Everybody knows what a bad trip is, and not everybody knows what a psychedelic crisis is.
Yeah, right, right, right.
But you know that bad trips exist, and I said,
oh man, my friend was having a psychedelic crisis,
and you'd be like, what the fuck does that mean?
Bad trip, right?
But you can pretty much always learn something from them.
Another thing people say in the psychedelic world is,
you don't always get the trip you want,
but you always get the trip that you need.
Oh my god.
Which again, is one of those things where it's like,
it's probably actually really valuable to believe that whether it's true or not,
because then you'll look for what you can actually gain from the experience afterwards.
So, I mean, if I'm just being straight, I just say,
there's something to be gained from that experience, no matter how terrible it was.
But if I were telling young people, I might even consider lying to them and say,
you always get the trip that you need, man.
Like, if you went through that, you needed to go through that, dude.
Yeah, it's hard to not sound like a ridiculous hippie when saying something like that,
but it might actually be more beneficial that way.
In a dark arts sort of way, for those aspiring rationalists out there that know what dark arts are.
My understanding of them is basically whenever you're sacrificing epistemic rationality
for the sake of instrumental, you're basically lying to yourself in order to get more done.
Well, or to other people.
Or to other people.
Yeah, it's even more unethical when you're doing it to yourself.
Because you're deciding for other people.
So, I don't know.
The majority of my experiences have been with mushrooms.
I've done acid enough times where I feel like I know what I'm doing and I feel like I know what's
there.
I haven't done massive doses of acid, though.
Like, I've done massive doses of mushrooms and multiple times.
So, I feel like I know my way around that really well.
If you've done one psychedelic, you can kind of know your way around other ones.
Sort of, right?
But they're different drugs, right?
Can you have psychedelic crises on mushrooms?
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean, you can lose it on a lot of things.
Gotcha.
But yeah, for sure.
I'd say until I had one, I didn't really think it was possible.
Yeah.
Because I went, I've gone super insanely deep and in not the best place to do it.
If I had noticed people giving me funny looks or something like that, right,
it could have sent me into a bad spot.
It just didn't.
And it was all good, happy, wonderful.
And then one time, one time that wasn't the case, hey bud.
I brought my cat today in case.
So, if we ever say like, oh, hi bud.
Oh, hello.
You're so cute that it's to my cat.
Yeah, I think we're basically in the episode now.
Yeah, I don't know.
I mean, this is actually a good precursor.
Like we're talking about drug experiences, which relate to spirituality
in the sense that I think we'll be talking about it today.
All right.
So, for me, they're the same thing.
Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, everyone.
We're not sure how long we've been going so far.
We'll figure it out in post.
Welcome to the intro.
Yes, I am Eniash.
I'm Steven.
And we have with us, Katrina Jenkins, Cannonball,
Bullington, Stanton, something.
Your name keeps getting longer every time.
Yeah.
Why not Junior, Mad Dog.
You can't call yourself Mad Dog.
The Mad Dog.
People in high school literally called me Mad Dog.
What did you do in high school?
I think my French teacher said it one time.
And for no reason at all, it stuck.
It was like I bit the hat on the run back.
And all of a sudden.
Like, yeah, I'm basically the Secretary of Defense.
What's that guy's name?
The Secretary of Defense now.
Cannon.
No, wait.
No.
I know.
I'm just kidding.
Mattis.
He's actually a really good dude by all accounts.
Like, people in the military love this guy.
Like, one of his nicknames was Mad Dog.
No idea why, but The Warrior Monk is another one,
which is probably more.
That's a pretty fucking cool name.
Right, yeah.
No, like, he's really, he's really well respected.
Dan Carlin loves him, so I love him.
Fair enough.
Right.
That's a good nothing to do with me.
Yeah, I'm not.
Yeah.
Anyway.
I think Jenkins will do for the episode,
just because it's faster.
Here are syllables.
It is less syllables, and this way,
people will be familiar with you from before.
Oh, yeah.
Because that's what we called you then.
And we're talking about something that I'm not an expert on at all.
So, lest anybody think that I might be an expert,
and I'm here because I'm an expert.
Why are you here?
Are you just here because you brought the kitten?
Mostly, yeah.
Okay.
The kitten is, the kitten is the closest we have to spirituality.
I wanted to see Stephen interact with the kitten,
and it's been satisfying so far, so.
I'm a big fan of cats and kittens,
and all things small and fuzzy.
Yeah, it's both of those things.
Yes, he is.
So, nowadays, when you talk about Japan,
do you tell people about the seeing of the foxes
and the chupacabra?
Capybara?
That's how I remember it, too.
He's like, I petted a chupacabra,
but that's not a real thing, because it is.
But, I mean, it's about the same length
that has the same biters and more or less the same order.
It's basically a chupacabra.
Honestly, I think the 90 seconds I've been talking to you guys
about it was the longest conversation I had about the trip.
Lord.
No, when I talked to him about Japan,
he was like, I really enjoyed the movies on the flight back.
What?
That's something an insane person says.
So, that particular line was because I knew it would piss off Matt.
All right.
I went with a guy who has been fan-playing over Japan
since he was a kid, and I kind of have been, too.
But I didn't come back as crazy hyped as he did,
so I like giving him a hard time.
But when people ask me how it was in front of him,
I'd be like, meh, four out of 10, whatever.
No, it was fun.
I got back, like what, two months ago?
Yeah, it was a fine trip.
I don't know what to say about it,
other than there were animals there.
Oh, my God.
And good food.
And that you loved the animals so much.
I mean, it was the animals.
We were around them for like 45 minutes out around the trip.
And honestly, it was in a circumstance
that I don't think would fly in the United States.
Yeah.
There were a lot of owls and mixed species.
Yeah, so like, part of me was like,
man, these animals are probably not flourishing right now.
But I was like, well, I'm already here,
and they're not so miserable that they're killing each other
or themselves.
So, you know, it can't be all bad.
Seriously, it can't be that bad.
They're in decent enough health and kept in okay conditions, right?
Yeah, I mean, I assume.
It just like, I just had to look at like the quarters of,
I don't know, there were 20 owls in a room about the size,
but maybe 1.5 times the size of your living room.
Plus like the caliwara and a couple of other things.
But like, it just seemed crowded.
