So that's what, um, I can pretty much just boil it down to like mushrooms,
like lots and lots of mushrooms have, have done for me.
Okay.
I, and I mean, there were a few times that were like, that were definite like watershed
moments where I was like, oh, I'm doing this and I need to stop doing that or like,
oh, I'm maybe not doing enough of this or, or something.
Um, but it's, it's not like you'll take this, you realize it and like you'll immediately
be a different person.
Usually that's not the case.
You still have to do the work to like fix yourself.
Mostly I would say it, they're like really powerful, introspective tools, at least for me.
LSD, I haven't, I haven't gotten anything like that on that.
I feel like I can maybe, maybe like understand the world differently in different ways.
You were talking about having like fractalized thoughts in a way a while ago.
I'm a really big fan of this one guy's music and it's really good.
And I was listening to this album and I realized like every side of this out,
because I was listening to it on vinyl, because I think I'm better than you.
I was like every, so I was listening to it.
I was like, every side of this album like contains the essence of this album in it.
And I was like, well, wait, no, no, no, it's really every song.
And then like, oh my God.
Oh my God.
And then like I can zoom out and be like, yeah, but like every album
like contains like the essence of it.
So I learned the 72 names of Derek, Vincent Smith that day.
It was really great.
But the whole like fractalized, self-similar sort of lines of thinking,
I think of fractals as like the most psychedelic thing.
When I'm trying to characterize what psychedelia is, fractals are like,
that's as close as I can get to like, that's it.
That's the essence of it.
It's the infinite self-similarity.
It's the, you can find like infinite, complicated, interesting aspects
in like a teeny tiny fraction of a spot, right?
I think that it's pretty close to, if I had to articulate it.
Yeah.
I spent, it's hard to gauge it on time somewhere,
like a third of the day thinking about basically one thing.
And it just kind of, it kept going in.
And I realized that there's more and more layers to this
and that I can keep going deeper and deeper into this thought.
And I liked the fractal imagery for it too,
because everything kind of felt like there was like these weird
shards that could go off in a thousand different directions.
But I kept just going down this one way.
And yeah, that, that, that hits it pretty well.
Oh, another aspect of like a mystical experience would be like paradoxicality.
You can, you can be experiencing two seemingly conflicting like emotions
and thoughts and understandings of things without really realizing
that they're conflicting or like they conflict, but they don't really conflict.
That's about as well as I can explain it to you.
So with all this talking we've been doing about spirituality and drugs,
I guess, and they're not the same thing, man.
All right.
Really, like it.
I mean, you can, you can separate the two, but not really.
I'm pretty well convinced that most religions kind of started
through like some sort of shamanistic source at the beginning.
I'd be really surprised.
No, I mean, I suppose like you can, you can do these things
if you just like starve yourself and, and whip yourself and, you know.
There's lots of ways to get it.
Yeah, sure.
I guess so.
Like, yeah, you can like feel so bad and think you're going to die
that you can have one of these experiences for sure.
But it's a lot easier.
I mean, especially if you think of like prehistoric man.
It's like, well, they either could have done that and they, you know,
some of them probably did, or just like find mushrooms growing out of poop.
So that's where, like, that's where I like Cubensis grow.
It's pretty likely.
LSD was, was that in 1930s?
When did Albert Hoffman since the first synthesize that?
No idea.
I don't remember.
Albert Hoffman, Swiss, chemist, amazing guy.
What's really interesting, you can look at the different molecules.
Of like each of these drugs.
So like, like you can compare serotonin to DMT, right?
And there you can, that's serotonin, that's DMT.
This does not help anyone who's doing the podcast.
But you can put pictures on the podcast.
I don't know.
Anyway, LSD is a much larger molecule than psilocybin,
which is the active chemical in, in mushrooms.
And LSD like hangs around a lot longer.
So like all the girls listening that dye their hair red,
you know that like red hair dye might like lingers a lot longer
because the molecules are bigger.
So when they latch on, they latch on for a really long time.
They have a really strong bond.
So like the first time you watch it, it gets knocked out.
So similar thing with LSD, right?
It hangs around.
What do we, what do we do with all this spirituality talk
that we've been talking about?
First we start our own religion.
Okay.
Then we ask everybody to give us all of their money.
No, no, no, only 10%.
It's gotta be, gotta be maintainable.
If they give us all their money,
then they only give us the money the one time and then they're broke.
Dude, have you seen the Scientology centers?
Right?
Yeah.
They're pretty loaded.
All right.
You just got to get them involved enough that they want to, no.
I don't know.
So I think the main point to get across is that
you shouldn't believe in the Christian God
because there's no reason to, right?
Right.
But like don't throw the baby out with the bathwater, right?
Still understand that people can have these experiences.
You don't need to be religious in order to have them.
They can still be just as important to you.
They can be just as important to the world, I think.
If like one person changing and being a much better person overall.
Again, like your mileage may vary and not everybody reacts with these things that way.
And there are a lot of people that take massive, massive doses of LSD all the time
and they're still assholes.
Like it still happens.
I think you still have to do the work.
But I think it becomes really difficult to lie to yourself.
About how you are and what you're doing.
And when you're experiencing something like that,
and that can be really valuable.
But just outside of that, like it's really interesting.
Like it's valuable in the same way that like an orgasm is valuable.
Like it can just be valuable for itself.
It doesn't need to be this external thing that affects more people.
It can just affect you and be good for you.
Yeah, I still see the value in that.
And I think people should seek those out.
Apparently meditation is a really good way to get there too.
I've never, I've had a few weird experiences meditating.
But I don't meditate enough to really know what I'm talking about.
I mean, I've heard it's good.
But it also takes a lot of time and effort.
And which I just don't have to give right now.
Most difficult things do.
Yeah, well, I mean, from what I've heard,
I can take a lot of mushrooms and approximate the effect of years of meditation experience.
Probably not the same thing.
But yeah, maybe like an ego death sort of situation.
Basically, I just want to say like people that don't think they're valuable,
you're wrong, right?
Like they are valuable.
They would be valuable to you, not necessarily the same way.
Like a lot of people take mushrooms and don't like them.
And you know, I think those people are wrong.
No, I think there's a lot of value to be had in spirituality,
but also it shouldn't become the most important thing ever
where you dedicate your life to joining a monastery.
Like I sometimes feel really bad about the amount of human effort
that has been wasted pursuing religious things and these spiritual things.
I'm like, as opposed to, I don't know, spirituality is really great.
Expansion of a like lifeless human like machine.
I don't know.
Yes, sure.
Anything.
I don't know.
Okay, so my parents went to visit Tibet at one point
and they were taken to this place where someone's footprints were in the wood.
Like literally, I think, depending on how much pressure
the various parts of his feet had put on the wood,
between a quarter inch and a half inch just completely
indented into the wood, which had been worn away
over the decades that he'd come and knelt in that exact same spot.
And the wood had just eventually worn away from the constant
his feet being right there.
And like the monks pointed that and be like,
this is such an amazing thing.
Look at how dedicated this person was.
And my parents were also impressed.
And I was like, all I could think was how many hours of life
were wasted kneeling there that was by his choice, right?
Yeah, it was by his choice.
But first of all, he could have done so much more with his life.
And secondly, he's being supported by the local peasantry.
This is a waste of both a life and resources.
And I think as awesome as spirituality is,
and I do think it's awesome.
And I think we need some sort of, well,
I would like to someday have some sort of common resource
as a way that we can process these things.
But I don't think it should ever get to the point
where people are like dedicating their lives to it.
It seems like just too much of a...
It's like the people who just do drugs constantly
and don't do anything else because they're like,
man, life is just about being high all the time.
Like, no, no, there's other things too.
Or running with your...
You are high all the time.
I mean, you're high all the time.
I don't do drugs.
