And I was like, this is kind of a drag.
But I mean, it was fine.
No, it was fine.
I don't know what to say about it.
It wasn't a spiritual experience for me.
It makes you feel better.
I used to put down rats as like part of my job
after doing experiments on them.
So, you know, it was ethical.
But like, in all seriousness,
I didn't like feel that bad knowing like,
okay, it's either like rat in the wild,
get rips apart by an owl or some other sort of something
or starve to death or freeze to death,
you know, or live a long life full.
I keep hearing those sorts of things.
And I don't know if they really matter all that much.
Like because whatever the last few minutes of your life
are the least important anyway,
you're nothing is going to be affected by them.
Oh yeah, good point.
You're not going to be like scarred emotionally or whatever.
Like as bad as dying is.
And I'd rather have, you know, a not horrific pain death.
Like if the rest of their life is pretty cool,
like running around in the wild and sometimes finding food
and sometimes not every now and then like scoring
with some hot rat chick or something.
If that is a fulfilling life for a rat,
then I don't think, you know, freezing to death
or being torn apart by an owl in the last few minutes
is really any price at all to pay.
Well, freezing to death, I think,
precludes like having a really, really rough time
for a long time.
Like if you're freezing to death, you're alive for a while
and just like really struggling for an extended period of time.
I don't know, unless it's flash frozen or something.
Yeah, like your last hours or days are spent
with you desperately trying to find warmth and food, right?
That sounds like a shitty way to go.
But the, I mean, I don't know how much the rat's flourished
being in a lab, but it's depending on what you're doing,
it's a small price to pay for progress.
So.
Yeah, all right.
No, yeah, I thought it was justified.
It's totally worth it for the human progress, yes.
Well, like it also depends what they're doing.
I got through half of Peter Singer's All Animals Are Equal
when I was like 17 or 18.
Maybe, I don't know.
I have such flexible objections to that title, but go on.
I don't know if he chose it or not, but I think.
That's probably why he did it.
Well, so, yeah, I mean, Singer also has just a great habit
of deliberately being provocative.
He wrote an essay defending bestiality called Heavy Petting.
So, yeah, very, and I don't think he's pro-bestiality.
What he is is pro-challenging your intuitions
and making you like actually articulate a defense.
In All Animals Are Equal, just like every other philosophy book
I've read, the primary argument's made in like the first 20 pages,
and the next 300 are just backing up the argument
if you're not already sold.
And so, he talks a lot about the experiments done on animals
over the last 30 or 50 years.
This book is published in the 70s.
Almost all of them are super pointless.
It was just like, I wonder how much of this it takes to kill rats?
I wonder how much of this it takes to kill rats?
I wonder, you know, if you electrically them enough,
if they get sad.
Stuff that I think was paraphrased like either you can learn
nothing useful from it, in which case what's the fucking point,
or rather you can learn nothing useful from it that helps humanity.
Or they're similar enough to us in that you can learn useful stuff,
in which case this is like now an ethical nightmare, right?
If they experience a ton of separation anxiety,
watching their babies get electrocuted to death in front of them.
Wow.
It's very funny, right?
You guys, we're laughing at the cat.
Well, and no, I was laughing at that because that's fucked up.
It is fucked up.
And this is the kind of insane shit that they've done to rats,
dogs, everything that, you know, chimps.
Acquiring an LD50 is pretty important for a lot of chemicals, right?
Is it important to know what the LD50 is for rats?
Like, for example, a rat's kind of a scaled down human in a lot of ways.
But I mean, enough ways where, yeah, no, it's a good analog.
And establishing that a rat does get upset
when its children are electrocuted in front of it.
At least you figure out now that rats may have some more moral worth
because they are able to understand that these are my children
and they are not happy and that makes me unhappy.
And so like, otherwise, how would we know
that they aren't just meat robots, right?
Well, I think what his complaint was
that people didn't take a lesson from it.
They're just like, oh, okay, so they do suffer.
All right, let's keep doing weird shit to them.
So like, I could get behind doing animal experimentation,
even on like great apes, to the extent
that you do the experiments that you need to do
while they're as comfortable as they can be.
And you don't, and you treat them great
when they're not being experimented on.
There's a whole field of bioethics.
Yeah, and it wasn't really a thing in the 70s
in the Spokas region.
Oh, okay, all right, that makes sense.
Yeah, he-
That was 40 years ago now.
70s were 40 years ago.
Yeah, we've come a long way.
They guys feel old now.
And now it's gotten to the point
where you can't ethically ask people questions.
What?
Yeah, well-
Did you not read Scott Alexander's thing
about how he tried to run a survey once?
Man, I haven't tried.
I haven't been keeping up with SSC for a while.
Oh my God, it was fantastic.
I want to get into that in one second,
but I want to drop a quick tidbit about Japan
that they haven't really had their animal rights movement
over there yet.
And I think it's something like four,
maybe seven percent of the population is vegetarian.
So as a result, vegetarian options are very hard to come by.
And there's, I think that's why you can have places
like this kind of sad petting zoo
where they had this sort of thing
because no one really cares over there.
Yeah.
Anyway, fun tidbit.
All right, so when was, what's this SSC?
He basically wanted to add a questionnaire
to some of the people that were being taken in
at his mental hospital.
I think it was just the psychiatric ward
of a general hospital.
Basically, after three years of struggling
or two years of struggling
with the ethics board was unable to do it
because it could be too traumatizing
to ask people these questions.
And they were simple intake questions
that actually get asked all the time anyway,
but you couldn't write down their answers.
Yeah, without violating their rights and shit.
And eventually it was like, well, fuck it.
I am done.
I have spent two years trying to do
a simple little research project
and I can't fucking do it.
What questions were these?
Dude, I'll have to link the post,
but it was the most basic shit.
Like, have you been sad in the last two weeks?
I mean, it was really ridiculous, easy crap.
And part of the problem being
that there's not really sure what the guidelines are.
And so they are as cautious as possible.
And it just, it was horrific.
So I did exactly.
I guess horrific is a bad term considering
we were just talking about shocking babies.
It was ridiculous and disheartening.
And I don't see how any research gets done ever.
Regarding the shocking babies thing,
I might be misremembering the specifics,
but they definitely did things to figure out
what makes them sad.
And do they experience empathy
when their siblings get tortured or something like that?
Those are definitely things.
I think it's a legit thing to find out.
But to what end?
Well, first of all, to know if we should care about them
and maybe figure out when empathy evolved
in the million line.
And it could be interesting to know that.
I could see it being interesting to know
if lessons were drawn from it,
and we adjusted behavior accordingly.
The fact that it took us decades
after those findings to adjust is kind of a drag.
I mean, if they keep redoing the experiment
every few weeks, then I can see how that may just be sadism.
Sure.
And it might be really interesting to know,
like, if you chop the arm off of one twin
if the other identical twin notices.
Actually, yes.
As an identical twin, I would like to say
that I don't want to submit to that research.
