Christianity, and he describes, you know, like-
Saw the triple waterfall, right?
Exactly.
He saw the waterfall frozen into three streams, which spoke to him of the trinity of Christianity,
and he fell to his knees.
Which just sounds fucking bad shit when you hear it.
It does.
But there must have been something going on in his brain right at that point.
No, he had a really powerful, like powerful, powerful experience, and that was the context
in which he decided to slap onto it, and it came ready, made, and it worked for him.
I've had powerful experiences before too, but I was able to say to myself, this is a normal
thing that humans experience, and it doesn't mean that a crazy bullshit God exists.
Those weren't the words exactly that I used.
I'm, like, using that now, but I was able to, you know, power through it, I guess, and say,
yes, this is a spiritual thing I'm feeling, but it has no impact on whether magic exists, you know?
Well, and I've talked to people who are religious who've had similar experiences,
and they just, they interpret it through that context.
They say that experience was profound and insane.
That must have been the divinity talking to me.
Right, which-
I agree it's a misstep, but I think it's an understandable misstep if that's the lens
that you're viewing your universe through anyway, right?
Well, yeah, they kind of have the monopoly on, like, all spiritual speak, right?
Because it's really hard to talk about it without sounding like a frufy idiot, and-
We need to introduce some sort of rationalist chamanism, or, like, this is your experience.
Yeah, dude!
And, you know, this is your spiritual experience, and this is how they work,
and this is not, has nothing to do with spiritual beings existing.
Yes, I guess you did just say-
Yeah, I did just say everyone starts to find religion, so there you go.
But I don't want to start at religion.
I just want people to be able to interpret these experiences in ways that don't leave them, like,
coming to Jesus.
You want them to interpret them, you know, closer to the way you interpret them?
Yes, thank you.
Yes, I am the rightful Caleb.
I'm throwing my hat in that ring.
There you go, cool.
That's what I thought.
I am not big enough to run with those dogs, but, uh-
Not yet.
I- Jesus.
But no, I had a friend of a friend, I guess briefly my friend too,
but we- we fell out of contact pretty quickly, where he was an atheist,
and then he took a bunch of shrooms for the first time, and he saw Jesus,
and after that he was a Christian.
And I'm like, what?
That's weird.
That's interesting.
And I was like, you- you did drugs, and he's like, yeah, I know.
I- I realized I was doing drugs.
I still realize it was just the drugs, but, uh, yeah, I found God.
That's- the drugs was what I needed.
And I was like, okay, I don't know how to argue with that.
So he found Christianity, he didn't find God in generic?
Yeah, yeah, literally Christianity.
Okay, so that's interesting.
I mean, it was a very liberal light sort of Christian.
So like, I have a friend who, uh, well, I know a guy, I guess.
I haven't talked to him in years, but he wasn't- he, I guess, is still an ex-Mormon,
and you know, he was fully on like the, I'm not a religious person,
and I can't remember if it was LSD or DMT that he took, but he was like, yeah, I-
I can't resolve what I saw other than to say that there's something out there
that's greater than us, and I'm gonna call that thing God.
And I'm like, don't you feel like that's like, at best, like, deliberately, like, misleading?
Yeah.
Can't you just say like, you know, a greater force, which I still-
I mean, the moon is out there.
Definitely greater than me.
Not calling it God.
Um, yeah, it was interesting because- and he was coming from like,
he had come out of religion into an unreligious sense, and then he didn't go back to Mormonism,
but he was like, yeah, man, where there's something behind the universe,
and uh, I guess I haven't taken enough drugs, but I don't- I would like to think that my grip
on my perception of reality wouldn't change enough to where I would say, uh-
I personally feel like I'm immune to that because I used to believe that, like, wholeheartedly,
you know? I had actual spiritual experiences when I was a kid, and I don't see how I could possibly
go back to that.
So can you describe the quality of them, and- or, I mean, like, what exactly can-
like, do you remember any of them specifically?
Well, yeah, I mean, okay, so-
What they felt like and looked like and-
This one is going to be childish because-
That's okay.
I was a child at the time.
Most of them are.
Yeah, okay, well, all right.
No, I mean, regardless.
Yeah, yeah.
Not undissurregardlessly.
And you can't describe them without sounding like an idiot most of the time.
Yeah.
Like, it's really- or- or like a pretentious douche.
Like, it's- walking that line is pretty impossible, I've found.
So you just have to embrace one of them.
I was in my bedroom, in my bed, and I was scared of basically monsters under my bed, right?
Except it wasn't monsters, it was literally Satan, because that was what I was taught.
Right.
Satan was gonna come get me.
Satan lived in my head until I was like 20, and I stopped believing, like, when I was 12.
So.
Okay.
I'm still a little bitter about that, too.
I wanna know more about that in just a second.
But yeah, basically, I was- I was just terrified and full of fear,
because you are a- when you're a kid and you're in a dark room and you don't know what's around,
and so I started asking God for help and to protect me, and he was like, yeah, I got you, bro.
And it just- it was reassuring and safe and empowering,
and it was- it was great to have God on my side like that.
I think that's why the hell component is so great for the memetic fitness of religions,
right? Because if you just promise, like, yeah, things, you know, no matter what you do,
things are gonna be great, and, you know, God's got your back, that just is this gentle reassurance.
But if you say- if you don't believe in this, and then things are gonna get really,
really bad for you, like, so much worse than you could ever possibly imagine,
then you're really on board to, like, buy into it wholeheartedly and tell everybody about it, right?
I mean, I guess.
I don't think it's necessary, because the Jehovah's Witnesses didn't have a hell.
I was just terrified of Satan.
So they have a Satan, but not a hell?
Yeah.
Okay, see, I don't know a lot about Jehovah's Witnesses.
So what's- what's the fear of Satan if he's not gonna send you to hell?
Well, you know, he's gonna corrupt your soul, so you won't be saved.
So then what's- what's not saved in Jehovah's Witnesses?
Just, uh-
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, right, okay.
So yes, if you die as a good Jehovah's Witness,
then you will be brought back to life after Armageddon,
and you get to live in perfect health for all eternity on a beautiful paradise,
Earth, where everyone is happy and bad things don't happen.
And what if you're not a good Jehovah's-
It's basically a transhumanist future.
And if you're not a Jehovah's Witness, you just don't get brought back?
Yeah.
Oh, that doesn't sound- that doesn't sound so bad.
Oh, so you have the concept of like-
I knew you'd get to be dead, which sucks.
That does suck, but it's better- it's- it's- it's certainly-
It's better than being tortured forever.
But Jehovah's Witness is-
Other people don't believe in death.
Like, I mean, like death doesn't exist.
It's just your spirit moves on to-
Yeah, yeah, no, that was- that was one of the harder recruiting parts of Jehovah's Witnesses'ism.
Yeah, is that- death is a real thing?
Yeah, yeah, that- that was- a lot of people were like- that- that was a hard thing to get across.
Weird.
And actually, that doesn't actually- that's not contrary evidence to my position, though,
because Jehovah's Witness is- is Jehovah's Witnessism- I don't know what's the word for that.
Seventh-day Adventism?
No, no, no, no, that's a different thing.
That's a religion?
Yeah.
I mean, they're- they're related.
They- they respond off from the same movement.
Oh, okay.
Well, so Jehovah's Witnessism isn't that big of a religion,
and maybe because they don't have a health component to scare people into believing it, right?
Okay.
That could be-
So, like, if- if- if I'm at the door-
I mean, why does it have similar tactics and they got much bigger?
Yeah.
But they have a health.
Neither of them are proselytizing enough, I think, is the main problem.
Proselytizing enough?
They're the ones that go door- to door- are you joking?
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
I'm sorry.
You did it with a very flat demeanor.
You said the word wrong.
Yeah, wow.
Actually, do the Mormons have a health?
I don't know that much about the Mormon theology.
I think so.
The way I've had it described to me is, like,
most people still end up going to heaven, though.
It's pretty rare.
So that- that's kind of how they deal with it.
Because I- I think it's more about the works they do than it is, uh, you know,
whether your belief system or-
When I was a kid, it was all about whether you believed or not, right?
That's where they can be, uh, baptized post-death.
Yeah, right, right, yeah.
And that's why they have the whole Ancestor.com thing.
Yeah, yeah.
Or Ancestry or whatever.
While I'm- while I'm on the topic of post-death baptism,
I think it'd be great if- well,
might not be great for their physical safety,
but I think it'd be a great tactic
to posthumously baptize every suicide bomber publicly
and say- as a Mormon.
I- I was like, as a Mormon church stance.
That sounds like a great PR move by the Mormons.
No, no, what it does is I think it might,
like, to the extent that you believe in that sort of, uh, voodoo,
that could deter suicide bombers from saying,
well, fuck, I don't want to risk my soul
