Okay, so see there I've made two two sets of data are now plotted on this graph.
Now they don't match the colors in the assignment so we'll have to go over that.
The dates I want on the assignment the dates are vertical and horizontal because here you can't read them right.
The axis has to change.
I want some vertical lines on this grid so I can maybe see
what the timing is and so forth but we're still adding in our data so let's go ahead and add in the other data.
So I select my graph and I say select.
I'm going to add another
series. So
I'm going to let its data car name come from
this box here.
I'm going to select the data source so I'm going to do the model data first or the measure data first so I forgot to scroll where I could see my yellow line down here.
Okay, there's my yellow one. So my dates go from two six through 825 so I shift selected those and got that whole column of data selected and I hit enter.
And then the why values that go along with that.
I'm going to fix that
to not be equal to one. I'm going to say
the why values start here and they go down to here.
Alright, so I picked a lovely color.
So
excuse me, Dr. Bearden, one question for you. Yes, from the date you went to the 25th but on the on the deaths you went to the 24th. Was that intentional or was that a mistake?
Okay, you're right. I did make a mistake. So that's great. Thanks for pointing that out. So I can actually see the selection range here.
And it goes from row three to row two or three for the wise.
And looking here there's two or three.
Yeah, so I got the wise correct.
But the X's went to here so I'm just going to click in this box and change that to a three and now the numbers match and that should be good.
And you're right. That didn't really make any difference right now but when I add the next thing to it, it could be confusing because it's I don't know it might break it who knows.
Okay, so here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to, I've been working for 45 minutes. I'm going to save this document.
Because when I was helping the physical science kids, I accidentally, there was a dialogue that popped up and I just hit return and all my work was gone so always when you're working in Excel or Word, every 30 minutes to an hour you better save your work just
not good if it if it goes away. Alright, so now I'm good. I've got two more series to add. I'm going to. So look at this. So what you can notice now the this blue data.
It's there because it's still in the legend, but it disappeared because the green fell on top of it.
And so I'm going to have to make a decision or figure out how to get the blue to show up on top because if you look at the
graph here that well I got to change the color to green but here the green is from March 26.
And so I'm going to have to restack these so that certain things are on top.
Alright, but let me continue to add the data that I want. So now I want to add the model data after
starting June 20 or August 25. So I'm going to add another series. I don't have a good title so I'm going to just write August
model data.
Now if I wanted to have a nice title that I could Excel will let you do things like put strings together and so forth.
Text strings I don't know if you're familiar with that but you could have another cell somewhere on the spreadsheet that is the actual title for this data.
And instead of typing in a word like August model data.
You could actually just click on a cell, but I just type to the end which is also possible.
Okay, so now I'm going to select the X range for this so I'm going to say I want this graph to go from August 25.
All the way down through the end of the modeling which is December 1.
And you might see the ant races there.
Alright, so I selected the X and now I need to get the Y values so let me get to where I can see the Y values.
Select get rid of that.
So select that number and I'm trying to make sure I don't make the same mistake again.
So you can also. And so what I'm doing is because these columns are so long. I'm so I'm clicking on the first cell, and I'm scrolling till I see the last cell shift clicking to select those two and everything in between.
I could also just highlight a cell and drag.
But when you have a couple of hundred rows to go sometimes that gets messy so I just developed a habit of select the first one.
Find the last one and shift click on that and that'll select all the data in that column.
And then enter. Okay, and it picked a lovely purple for that.
Okay, so I've got all my data in there.
It kind of matches the assignment. Oh no I didn't put everything I've got to put in the smooth data.
I need one more thing so I'm going to.
And that graph disappeared because I accidentally clicked down there.
Okay, I'm not going to.
The smooth data is all zeros up to there. Let's see I need to move this.
Okay.
I can't remember what I did for the smooth data.
It looks like it overlaps there a little bit so I guess I put all the smooth data in there from this point so let me select so I'm going to add
another series I don't have a good title for it but I'm so I'm just going to say smooth.
Smooth data. Oh I gotta have a capital S there.
Okay the x values I'm going to pick.
I'm going to start on March 10.
I'm going to go all the way through.
Well I'm not going to go all the way through because the smooth data.
If you look at this number and this number they're the same because the smooth data is the same as a model data so I'm going to go through the end of the real data.
So August 20 is 24th.
And these are all adjustable if you select the wrong thing then it's it's not a it's very easy to fix it and adjust it.
And then okay so now I'm going to select the smooth data column which I happen to know I've looked at the data and I know that column G is the column I want if I'm not sure.
I have to scroll up to see my column title there it says deaths mean smooth so I just happen to remember that so select that hold down the shift key.
And then select that.
Okay and it put it on there.
So I want to check to make sure I got that selection right unfortunately this thing is so long I can't make this box any bigger so I'm going to check that says that goes to 203.
And this goes to 203. Okay so I got at least it's consistent.
Okay so there's a graph with all my data in it. And if you're just doing it quick and dirty you might be done at that point you know.
So but you have the boss and the boss said on a graph that looks like this. So let's start looking at that.
How do you edit a graph.
You can for example.
Let me look at this purple line here I can if I'm if I get really close to it and double click on it.
I can get a dialogue box for that for that curve. So let's go ahead and play with that one.
So you have a marker. If our graph had the dots on it. I would play with the marker.
But we didn't want one. What we have is a line.
So let's let's look at that. Here's a color choice for the line. Let me look at my requirement I have read.
I'm going to say don't pick the color automatically I want you to go red.
And it changes.
And I didn't say how weighty the lines were but that looks kind of fat compared to the one in the required format so let me turn the weight down I think it's just like two points maybe.
I can change the weight. I could also make it dashed if I wanted.
So you have a lot of choices for how your lines look.
You can put arrows on it.
Okay, so if we're really pessimistic and we think that the numbers are going to go up at the start of December and there's going to be a huge peak before the end of the year.
There's a little arrow on it but so there's a lot of options in here.
I want to make sure for my case I usually hate shadows on graphs but if you like shadows there you go there's a shadow for that line.
It's just a tremendous number of stylistic options there so that's one way to do it.
There's also a choice here called order, and it sees that we have five series on here.
So what I really want to do and I really didn't mean to do it right now but now is as good a time as any.
What I want is I want the blue March 26th desk to show up and they're not showing up.
So I'm going to try to find that.
So if you think about it, it's like you look from the bottom up.
The top thing on the graph is this smooth data.
The bottom thing on the stack of graphs is this I'm going to move it down.
Mr. Bearden. Yes, ma'am.
I have to head off to zoom call will this will the rest of this be available like recording on iGrid.
I don't know how I'm going to get it. I don't know if iGrid will let me do that. I'll see if I can.
Okay. All right.
All right, thank you. Alrighty, talk to you later.
All right.
Okay, so I form out of that. Are you guys good to go still.
For a few minutes, Michael has of his work conference call and a little bit.
Okay.
Well, let me just go through some of the so we've got all the data in we're just formatting it to look the way we want really so.
One of the other things if you go to chart layout you can easily see they group some of the stuff here as well.
So let's look at axes. I want to get some lines for the vertical axis.
So I go to access options.
And I go to ticks.
Those are tick marks now I want.
Oh, no, that's this axis here. So I don't want to start out with negative 10 deaths. So I'm going to force that to go to zero.
All right, so now my graph starts at zero.
I could change the maximum.
I could.
Well, I left 60 on there so zero to 60 is probably good for that. So you can tell right away then the number of that maximum number of deaths per day in Mississippi was less than 60.
Okay.
I thought this is where I would find.
Okay, so in this choice here's grid lines so I want to look at vertical grid lines it says no grid lines. I'm going to say major grid lines.
Okay.
So the other thing I'd like to do is rotate these dates. So what I can do, I can double click on the element there.
And there should be some choices there.
Access labels.
How do I do this.
The dates inside Excel dates are always an integer. And so if you mess with this you actually can move the dates. I bet you don't move it by date it's by a number and that getting those numbers right is often tricky so
that that lets you like if you want to know the date and five days you can have a date and say plus five and then you'll get the date and the calculation.
How do I do this I need to rotate. I know it's not this box there's actually a data labels box.
No not data labels.
That's where it was I think.
How do I do that.
There's there's a box somewhere that says, or where you can adjust the angle, you can actually make them go at an angle. If you want.
Text direction. I want it to be.
Say counterclockwise.
Yeah, so that's that was a choice I made was counterclockwise, or you can pick a custom angle as well.
If you don't want to do 90 degrees.
Okay, so now I've got the problem that those go off of the box here. So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to grab, try to grab this access.
Come on.
I accidentally click outside of the box. I should be able to grab that.
There we go that access and make this go up. So now my dates are outside of that box.
Let's see what else visually okay the colors of each of these I can adjust those so let me.
And well so it'll be just like I did this one I can adjust the color and the line went. So let me double click the data series here. Oops, that's the wrong thing.
I want the data series.
Okay that one I got that one. So I'm going to make its line.
Dark blue.
I'm on the wrong one I accidentally picked that.
I want a brilliant blue.
So refreshing my memory on the assignment is to make a graph that looks identical to the one in the assignment.
Yeah, yeah, as much as possible. I mean, like here I didn't even select the same blue and I'm on the same computer. So,
it should be you know proved to me that you can change the color of your graph really is all I'm saying there.
Okay.
So I've got a darker blue and a lighter blue.
Okay.
Let me just play with it here.
Is that the blue.
Yeah that's the blue I picked okay.
And I changed the weight of it down to two points maybe it's 1.5 I don't know.
So I didn't say what those numbers should be because again that's probably artists choice now when I highlight a graph here you see the other beautiful thing you can do is you see the data that's actually in the graph is highlighted.
So if I had accidentally missed this I could drag this down and get the right boxes are the right data.
So that's another beautiful thing is when you do that. I hate it that I'm saying that there's anything beautiful in Excel but there is.
Okay, so
I keep clicking the wrong one.
Another way to format something is to go over here. So I can select the data series. I'm on the August 27 death.
I need to smooth.
I'm going to look at the smooth data and now I'm going to format it. And here's most of the choices for that. I want the line color to be light blue.
There.
And I can, and I also want it to be a lighter way.
I forget when I did it I had I think I went to two point line with and so that's one way to do it so now I want to get this bell shaped one and I wanted that to be black I think yeah.
So let me go I'm going to say I want the series which is the
March 26 or March model data.
And I'm going to format it now and I'm going to say the line needs to be black.
And the weight needs to be less.
Okay.
That's pretty close. The only thing I haven't done is to get this legend so to me that's a lot of wasted space I'd like my legend to be on the graph so I can highlight it.
Go to format now chart layouts and there's a legend.
And there's overlap legend I'm right.
Okay, so I guess I get to drag it to where I want it.
If I double click it I get some formatting options I'm not I filled it with a color.
It's kind of like green.
More like a gray or brown.
I guess it was that color maybe.
And you can also play around with the font in there.
And so forth so.
And now I can move that around that will move it where I want it.
Okay so that's kind of close and I can keep fiddling it but it's pretty boring stuff.
And so then there were a few questions in the exercise at the bottom just trying to get them to read the graph a little bit.
And so what I wanted to do in the exercise six was to try to answer some questions which aren't terribly rigorous but like with the smooth curve, which I can barely see there that was a bad color choice, but with the smooth curve I can see there's a couple of
pumps in the data and the smooth real data.
And so these dates also come from their data set so like that peak looks like it's about may 10th or something so were there any events that correspond to that would be a question maybe.
So, the opening of non essential businesses occurred on April 27.
And maybe there's a peak there due to that. Anyway, that's most of what they were asked to do for the most complicated graph.
The other graphs leading up to that were simpler, you know usually it was one, one data set at a time just to try to get them to step through.
Doing different things. Oh, let's see. Also the number of grid lines is different as well so you can adjust that there's a good place to do that.
So if I double click that grid line.
Now that's the wrong. The problem with double clicking in the chart is that some you can't always get what you want. There I think I got it.
Well that's not the best way to do it.
