if you take any bunch of molecules
and you just sub select, you know,
the right kind of properties,
they'll be running windows or something like that,
you know, like because there's such a mind blowing
degree of freedom that, you know,
there's enough there that, you know,
you just have to be selective
and then, you know, you get whatever you want.
But, you know, but the question is like,
does that have downstream consequences
for the process, right?
And so there you don't want necessarily the observer
to be the one who determines what it is that was there,
right?
You know, so I don't know what the redeco there is,
maybe I need to look it up, but it seems so far,
it seems fine, everything you just said
seems completely fine to me
because what I think happens in biology is,
so in computers, we're used to the fact
that there's somebody who wrote the algorithm
and we sort of, we tend to take that interpretation
as the privileged, like I know what this is,
I wrote it, that's what I'm telling you,
it's a bubble sort, whatever it is,
but in biology, you don't get that.
And so every subsystem with cells,
subcellular components, tissues
are looking at all the stuff going on around it
and they don't, you know, they don't get a manual to say,
well, what the hell does this mean?
There's signals coming, what computation is this?
And I think what they have to do for adaptive advantages
interpret it however they can.
So they form their own internal model
of what the computation is and they say,
oh, I see what this is, this is telling me,
you know, that the metabolism is gonna shoot up
five minutes from now.
And somebody else, some other module is looking at that,
no, no, no, what I see here is that
this set of genes is gonna be expressed
and therefore I'm gonna do this and that.
And in that case, and in Josh's work,
you can see this like, it's this particulate material
and depending on how you look at it,
you see an AND gate or an OR gate
and there is no privileged answer to,
well, which one is it really?
I mean, there is no really.
And I think biology has that, takes that to an extreme.
But many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many,
maybe I should read this, but, you know,
if I had a computer built and like, you know,
there was an ambiguity whether an AND gate
was an AND gate or an OR gate, would the computer work?
No, right?
I mean, like you have to depend on
that it does a particular translation
of its inputs to its outputs.
And if it doesn't, then, you know,
well, then you have a kind of proper holistic machine
or something like that, but you know,
it would be some kind of other kind of system.
Well, so let me push back on that.
I think that that's true if you stick to one observer
and the idea that there is a definitive one thing
that that observer wants it to do.
And then, yes, if one observer can't tell what it's doing,
that's a real problem.
But I don't think it's a problem
if you have a physical device
and there are multiple observers
and one observer says, oh, this is great.
This thing's generating prime numbers
and somebody else looks at it and says, oh, whatever.
What I see is that it's, I don't know,
it's doing some other function.
Now, you know, for us, I mean,
it's statistically very unlikely that you can say,
oh, look, it's running Windows and somebody else says,
oh, no, it's completely different
because it's hard to have a process
that matches both those descriptions at the same time.
But I think what happens in biology
because there's noise,
there's a high tolerance for fuzziness and all that,
there are lots of systems
that are looking at the same set of events
and interpreting, building internal models of those events
as completely different things.
And it's like, you know what?
Okay, but I agree with that.
But that's from the point of view of looking at it, right?
So if the point of view is that
there are multiple interpretations possible
and that diversity of points of view is helpful in some way
for the systems around it,
I can totally agree with that.
And I think that's interesting to explore.
But that's very different than saying
that those multiple possible perspectives
make a difference to the process itself,
which is lending itself to be interpreted
in these multiple ways.
Well, what I think then happens is,
so the other side of the equation,
and I think you're absolutely right
in how you divide this, right?
And so the two sides.
So the other side is tenon bombs.
Have you seen his paper, The Child as a Hacker?
The Child as a Hacker, it's also me.
It's really good.
And it's this notion overall.
So I sort of expand that beyond,
I mean, he's studying brains and human development and so on.
The notion of hacking is from where what's fundamental there
is that you don't know or care
what the correct way to interact with a system is.
You are going to exploit it however you can, right?
That's kind of this notion of it.
And so I think what happens in the biology
is that part of interpreting these things however you want
is that you are also going to use that
to control them however you can.
So you try to find ways, right?
So I think that's basically what's happening
in biological material is that every,
both within levels and across levels,
you have systems that are constantly hacking each other
and trying.
No, I completely agree.
So here we're on the same page.
Actually, like, you know, this is something
that also follows from the framework of proposing.
Because if there's a black box,
basically components at different levels
have to have a high level of tolerance of uncertainty.
And they have to have trust to some extent.
And sometimes from their point of view,
it doesn't make sense what's going on around them.
But that doesn't mean that they should disengage
or kind of like, you know, fight it
or try to resist it or counteract it.
Because what it could mean is that actually
it's a different level of agency,
a higher level of agency rearranging things, aligning things.
And, you know, you need to just roll with it
even if you don't have everything that is required
in order to understand where that's coming from.
And but if, because of that, there is a gap
for, you know, free riders or pathogens or something like that
to take advantage of exactly the same trust,
trusting nature that, you know, okay,
today I'm producing this other molecule.
I don't know why I'm producing it.
Yeah, it turned out you're a hijacked by a virus.
And it's not, you know, the higher levels
that are kind of like, you know, messing with you.
So, but yeah, that's kind of built into this system.
So you can't avoid it, you know,
that's because it's such an indirect architecture,
that which allows the multi-scaler integration
is also that which allows like, you know,
bad things happening to some extent.
Well, absolutely.
And my guess is, and we're now starting
to explore this experimentally,
is that systems have probably way,
biological systems probably have ways
to try to determine whether something that's happening
was caused by me versus.
Nice.
I want to do the same for the brain.
Yeah.
There should be probably some frame of reference
in the background that tells you how much unexpectedness
should you be expecting at each moment?
Exactly.
What's the rate of unexpected events, for example?
Yeah.
And if it exceeds your expected rate
of unexpected events, something else is messing with you.
Yeah, that's right.
So it's the question of, there's a couple of ways to pose it.
Like, am I learning or am I being trained?
That's an interesting distinction, right?
Because how much agency is there in my environment?
Is there another agenda that's responsible
for my learning process?
And if you're a cell, so the way we're going to do it
is basically to look at, our readout is going
to be stress response and some other things.
But you can imagine a cell or a group of cells,
and you can imagine messing with it in progressively different
degrees of internal targeting.
So here's a signal that comes from the outside of the cell.
Fine.
