But so far, cognitive science hasn't done this,
this, you know, allowed itself to conceive this possibility.
So let's go down.
So what I want to propose is that
we do need to make this room for this conception.
That's why I call it a black box framework.
That's just for a moment,
accept that we don't understand this relationship.
So we have two versions of it.
Let's stick with the human one for a moment
because it's easier for us to relate to.
So we have mental causation.
The scenario is, you know,
putting our neuroscience hats on or whatever, you know,
looking inside an organism, okay?
If something mental makes a difference
to its material basis of this behavior,
you've got an unobservable mental cause, right?
Like I said, just said,
we just have physical stuff happening.
We don't see the mind of such when we go inside the organism,
causing an unintelligible material event.
And it's unintelligible because we cannot directly observe
what caused it, what made the difference.
Okay, that's outside of the scope of observation
when we make quantitative assessments.
And the other way around is the same.
So, you know, we know that some things happening in the brain
make a difference to mental content
or make a difference to subjective experience,
but we can't measure subjective experience directly
inside the brain.
It's not there.
It's not something that we can actually quantify directly.
So that would mean that to the extent
that something is making a difference to experience,
you've got our cause without an observable effect.
Okay, so you've got an unintelligible material effect,
event here, that something is happening,
some change is happening,
but we don't understand why it's happening.
Okay, so we've got these two categories.
And what's interesting is that they point in different ways.
So that already suggests that, you know,
the signatures for these kinds of relationships
will be different ones.
And so this is then where I introduced my proposal
for how to work with this kind of situation.
And this is the eruptions theory,
where if we have the mind and the matter
relating to each other and we don't know how, okay,
this is the heart problem of efficacy or mental causation
or the heart problem of consciousness.
We know that they're related somehow,
but when we trace one domain into the other, it escapes us.
Okay, so let's just go through this one more time, right?
I have an intention of saying words,
of moving my hand to make a point.
And I can notice that my intention
is making a difference to my body, right?
If not, it would be crazy, right?
So, you know, I have the experience
that there's a coherence
between what I want to do and what my body does,
except that I don't know how my body does it.
Okay, something gets lost along the way.
I can see the effect of my intention,
but I don't have access to how it has that effect.
So that's one aspect of the black box, right?
And it's also true on the other side.
So now imagine I'm a neuroscientist
and I look at what's happening in the pathway
from my brain to my arm to make my arm move.
If it's really the intention as such
that's making my arm move,
well, the neuroscientist doesn't have access to that.
He can't measure intentions using his, you know,
I don't know, EEG apparatus or whatever he's might be using.
So again, something that gets lost.
I can go work backwards from the behavior
to all the activity in my body,
but at the end, something gets lost.
I cannot actually make the jump to the other side.
So that's what I mean with the black box.
We know these things are related,
but by some reason, maybe by necessity,
we can't trace properly, like transparently across.
And so that's why I propose the way to think about this
is in terms of absorption and eruption.
Absorption means that on the side of the mental,
when I inject my intention to do something,
it basically, there's a compression effect.
You know, Dr. Iffes talked about this
in terms of absorbed coping, right?
So when I'm really engrossed in my activity,
actually, you know, there's a narrowing of my vision,
you know, the world disappears a little bit
into the background, I lose myself and so on.
There's a kind of like compression
of the variability of my experience
as it's invested into the activity of my behavior.
But what happens on the other side?
Okay, now you're totally involved
in generating your behavior,
but that involvement is subjective involvement.
It can't be, you know, quantified.
It can't be translated into something happening
purely quantitative terms.
So then that means that there's a hidden variable.
Okay, now there are factors making a difference
to how your behavior is generated
that cannot be, you know, traced to causes
at that level of description.
That's what I call eruption.
Now there's a kind of diversification,
an increase in variability
that in principle would remain unexplained
at that level of description, you know,
and we can trace it back to the higher level.
And that was the original proposal of eruption theory
in the first paper.
And I like elaborated on that part a lot.
And there's many examples that we can talk about of,
you know, how this fits with some of the empirical data.
When we talk about neural entropy and complexity
and all these kinds of things, you know,
and why organisms are such noisy systems in the first place,
you know, like a lot of this starts to make sense
from this point of view.
But then let's talk about the other side first for a moment.
That's the absorption side.
That's a new part of this paper,
which is to say that if there's a cause
that has an effect which can't be observed,
it's a little bit like a reduction in variability.
The difference that would have been made
is now not being made
because that difference appearing in a domain
that I cannot directly measure
in the one that I'm currently observing.
So this is a reduction in variability.
So two things kind of collapsing
or canceling each other out.
There's information loss of a different kind
as things are getting kind of translated
into the other domain.
And so right now what I'm working on
is more on the right hand side,
trying to flesh out that part.
And, you know, it's coming together quite nicely
with the things we've been talking about,
like both time motifs and things like that,
which are very nice ways of canceling out things.
I think that's pretty much it.
So I just let me just end on one final note,
which is that in my mind,
this is just a first step of something much more general.
And so what it looks like to me now is that
this is just one special case of an interaction
that crosses two ontological domains,
or regional domains, regional domains of being.
Or if you want, it could also be considered
as crossing different scales of agency, right?
Going from the scale of agency of inside your body
and all the agents that are working there
to your agency as a person.
But basically, as long as we have a transition
between ontologies of some kind,
then this kind of frame will probably will apply too.
And that could even be true for cellular biology,
for example.
So when I was reading your work on,
how is it that the higher levels, you know,
transform the lower levels,
and how do they get incorporated
into the higher levels again?
You have very similar notions actually
as eruption and absorption already.
So with eruption, the way you phrase it is
that there's a deformation of the energy landscape
of the lower level, right?
So suddenly, you know,
these guys are happily doing whatever they're doing,
but now there's an unexpected change
in the kind of, in the game that they're playing
and they would have to study adjust.
And from their point of view,
well, they will never be able to figure out why that happened.
You know, what just happened?
That's all that's outside of their scope, right?
So it's a little bit like an eruption in that sense.
There's an increase in a change unexpected
and it can't be explained at that level of description.
Okay, it just goes beyond it.
And at the same time, when you talk about
how the components get integrated into the larger whole,
you talk about something like a loss of identity
or something like that, right?
So for example, the molecules produced by one cell,
well, you know, they're not tagged with the name, right?
