Here's a signal that we generated in the second messenger
pathway right under the membrane.
Here's something that we did in the nucleus itself.
Awesome.
At what point does the cell say, yeah, that's cool.
That's what I'm doing versus, oh, no, this is clearly
coming from outside.
And I think that's nice.
So this has performance like a brain stimulation.
So I want to get into that for our lab.
And one of the reasons is that if eruption theory is
on the right track, doing TMS to the brain or whatever
stimulation is basically eruption simulation.
So suddenly you have an uncaused fluctuation in activity.
But from the point of view of the local components
in the brain, they're used to that.
That's already how they always get impacted
by higher levels of organization.
So then it's kind of like we're speaking the language
of the higher levels of organization
by injecting this external variability.
And that's nice, because then we can actually play with this.
Like we can say, what's the rate of agency
that the system is currently expecting?
And there's all kinds of interesting things,
like why is deep brain stimulation
helpful for overcoming obsessive-compulsive disorder
or maybe helpful in depression and so on?
So certain conditions where our agency becomes constricted,
somehow compressed or limited, are
helped by what otherwise looked like crude interventions.
Why should just putting this random stimulation somewhere
in your brain have the same effect
as you opening up your space of agency possibilities?
That's very strange.
But if the way in which agency of a personal level
connects with the sub-person level
is only indirectly through this deformation of the state
space in unexpected ways, basically,
well, then all you have to do is deform it
in unexpected ways to mimic to some extent
the signals that they're expecting from the higher levels.
That's a really interesting point.
I wonder if, and this is totally beyond my expertise,
but I wonder if some aspects of plastogens and psychedelics
and things like this can be understood
by what you're really doing is lowering the vigilance
of the system to hack from the higher levels
so that you're more willing to not resist.
I mean, this issue of resistance, knowing
that you're being hacked, whether laterally,
whether by a parasite, whether by a malfunctioning
component, or from above by some higher level of organization,
that resistance, biometically, this is huge.
Because one reason, I think, why we
have to trouble designing new drugs that actually
fix anything, and we have almost,
other than antibiotics and surgery,
we have basically nothing that fixes anything, right?
These drugs hold down some symptoms, best case scenario,
but they don't really fix anything.
And I think part of it is that we
are operating in a way that's very easy for the cells
to tell and try to fight back.
I like it.
Yes.
I think that's the limit, right?
The limit of molecular medicine.
I know that someone else is messing with me.
That's not coming from the higher level of organization.
Yeah, because it's such micromanagement,
and the cell, what the hell is this?
There's this receptor that's suddenly
being targeted by some frequency.
That's why you see all these drugs,
and then there's a list of potential side effects
that are a mile long that your head will fall off
and you'll go blind all of a sudden.
Yeah, you're actually on the right track here.
So I'm thinking that there could be a spectrum of possibilities.
Because we're now separating mind and matter a little bit,
just a tiny gap between them.
It opens up two possibilities.
Imagine we have a reduction in agency, like dementia.
So people stop being able to express themselves.
Language goes away.
They stop being able to take care of themselves and so on.
But in that case, it could be that the brain itself
is no longer flexible enough to be
able to receive these kinds of perturbations
and let them percolate through the system
and scale them up in the right kinds of ways.
It could be that agency is almost intact, to some extent.
The mind is still there, but you just
cannot find the channel to express itself.
On the other hand, maybe in some other cases,
like I say depression, it could be that the brain is fine.
It's actually ready to receive whatever you're going to send it.
But there's something happening at the level of motivations
and will and experience, which the person is overwhelmed
for whatever reason.
It's not sending the kind of impactful interventions
that would normally make the body move in the right kind of ways.
So both mind from the outside looks similar in the sense
that there's a reduction of engagement with the world,
but the physiology of it could be very different.
So I like that because it feels more natural
to have these two possibility axes.
It's not always everything in the same place.
And what you're saying about the fact
that we need to be a little bit more clever about how
we interact with that, I really like that.
So that makes a lot of sense.
And what you're saying about intervening
in the different levels, we're starting
to think about that too in terms of humans.
So we can trigger muscles directly
by applying contraction to your nerve fibers here.
You can grasp like that.
And that also can feel like you're actually doing it
if it's doing it in a good way.
But what if we do it from here?
Or what if we do it by doing something here?
At which point, is there a sense for, hey,
this is not me doing it anymore or something like that?
Yeah, that's very interesting.
I was actually trying to look up some papers
on this related to confabulation.
And people with, like I've seen examples
where somebody has an electrode in their brain
and it triggers laughing.
And so push the button and your mouth starts laughing.
The patient doesn't report.
That's weird.
I was having a serious thought and then my mouth starts
laughing.
But they say, oh, I had a funny joke.
That's what they say.
So this issue of confabulation and to what extent
does the system, as you said, does the system
take this on as, OK, I'm going to tell a coherent story of why
it was me versus I'm going to accept it.
And actually, dementia in another,
I just wanted to say another quick thing about dementia
and those things.
I have a collaborator who is a hospice nurse.
And she cares for, she's not a scientist,
but she's a long term hospice nurse with a lot of experience.
And we're actually writing a paper on case studies
where what seems to, there's this phenomenon
called terminal lucidity, which is really interesting,
where basically you have somebody
that has been in a very debilitated state
for a really long time.
And it's just progressively been going down.
They don't speak, all that stuff.
And you think, OK, that's it.
Like it's all gone.
And then I think, I forget the exact amount of time,
but I think it's like a couple days before they actually die,
it all comes back.
And they have a lucid conversation with people
and they remember things and they give some instructions
and whatever.
And there's this sudden burst like, and it's right.
I don't think there's a good clinical understanding of it,
because if it's just the fact of the hardware degrading,
then that's it.
That's nice, yeah.
So having a slight gap in our account
would allow for that, make sense of that possibly, yeah.
Exactly, yeah.
Yeah, I like it, yeah.
So I think there's that clinical component.
I think it would be cool to study some of that stuff
from the perspective of the model that you're putting forward.
I think that could help.
Here's another interesting example, clinical example,
which is if we think about the absorption side,
what would be the maximum version of it?
It would be if almost the whole brain is in synchrony.
So that's like all the local variability.
Each neuron has tens of thousands
or connections coming in, all the variability,
suddenly they're all like firing in unison, right?
So it's a huge reduction of complexity,
lots of information loss.
When you do that, agency goes out the window,
okay, you collapse, okay?
And that also makes sense
because now you can't have any more eruption, right?
Everything is ordered, everything is regimented.
It's no possibility for injecting
experienced variability anymore.
It just gets, you know, there's no room for it, okay?
So no more agency, but the model would predict
that experience might still happen.
In fact, it might even be more happening
than in a normal state.
And so I started, you know, just a little bit investigated,
