but for some people, indeed having an elliptic fit
can come with all kinds of experiences, you know,
even like divine intervention kind of experiences, right?
So, you know, like, you know, having a, you know,
something that changes your life kind of experience
can happen under those states.
So that's interesting in the sense that it fits again
with this model that, you know, on the one hand,
although it knocks our agency,
now your experience channels have been opening up,
you know, on the other hand.
So it's, and something, you know, like there's something there
that, you know, there's lots of this kind of thing
that, you know, it mentions psychedelics.
We didn't talk about this, but, you know,
it's like the other way, maybe it's actually loosening things
up so it becomes easier to integrate with your brain.
And that fits very nicely also with other work
that shows that if you're under anesthesia, you know,
if you measure neural entropy, complexity,
diversity of signals, it turns out that if you're doing
a cognitive task while you're slowly falling unconscious,
if you're doing the class well,
your neural entropy is higher than baseline.
So even though you're falling unconscious,
your neural entropy goes up more than expected.
But if you're actually falling unconscious
and you're stopped being able to do the task,
then it goes down.
So assuming that both groups of people
actually are losing consciousness,
then this kind of entropy is not tracking
the state of awareness, it's tracking your cognitive effort.
How involved are you mentally in what's happening?
And that's going back to dementia.
Like one of the best things you can do
for preventing onset of dementia
is learning extra languages, you know,
like, you know, engaging in extra normative frameworks,
you know, becoming able to respond
in a much more multifaceted way to your environment.
And if you think about the way in which we live
before, you know, modernization to some extent,
we were embedded in a symbolic world, you know,
everything had meaning, you know,
nothing happens just by chance, you know,
like the fact that this cat crossed the road
might mean that my mother will die
or I don't know something, you know?
So everything had super significance.
This kind of symbolic framework was overlaying
on all of our perception.
And if involvement, mental involvement in our behavior
is actually causing eruptions,
well, then that has very loosening effects on everything.
So it makes sense to me that the best way of preventing
your, you know, like things freezing up, so to speak,
is to actually become more involved normatively.
And it's not just about, you know, autopilot stuff.
This is important, right?
So it's not, if you're just an autopilot, you know,
your body can take over.
And maybe that's also a little bit about what you were saying
in terms of stimulation and then, you know,
this kind of confabulation happening, right?
It's kind of like the habit.
The habit takes over.
It's not like you're really freely willing
the words coming forward.
It's just that your body has already made response
to the situation that's kind of like, you know,
unfolding in that moment.
And I think a lot of our behavior is like that.
And what I've been speculating a little bit
that the success of large language models,
to some extent hints that, you know,
even when we talk like this conversation right now,
a lot of it is actually habits
and our body's predispositions just unfolding themselves
with the affordances and the environment.
And that's why they can't be modeled, you know,
by just looking at, you know,
linguistic patterns and so on.
And so this is another consequence of the eruption ideas.
And if you have this little gap,
it also means that we're no longer directly in control
of our behavior, right?
We can set the intentions.
We can open the space of possibilities.
We can make things more flexible, for example.
But then you have to be in the right context.
You have to have the right affordances.
You have to have the right history of interactions.
You have to have the right body for that behavior
then to also express itself in the right way.
And if some of these things start crumbling
or deteriorating or something like that,
then maybe intentions don't connect that well anymore
with your behavior or with your regulation.
But when things work well, it looks like we're in control
because, you know, the body just makes it happen
like magic almost.
But, you know, all we can do really
is to go open spaces of possibilities.
But to turn those into actualities
is coming out of our embodied history
of interaction with the environment.
So it's a different take on free will, it's interesting
because yeah, you're free in the sense
that you still have the choice
of opening possibility spaces,
but you don't have the choice of how to close them.
The only way to do that is to cultivate
the right kind of environment and the right kind of skills
such that you're always poised to respond
in a way that you want to be responding.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I completely agree with that.
I like a notion of free will
that basically extends it to a longer time scale
to the idea that what's free is modification
of self and environment to enable you
to do it in different ways in the future.
That's where you get to really exert it, right?
Yeah.
And it's a bit strange to think about that in the first place.
I mean, just thinking about like,
hey, I can't directly control the next word
that's coming out of my mouth.
I just have to trust my body
that it will choose the right word.
Otherwise, I get a Freudian slip or something like that.
Yeah, but once you're okay with that,
then your focus shifts and says,
well, what can I do today such that tomorrow
it will be better, this kind of thing?
Yeah, I think that's a much more useful view of it.
Yeah, and I think it's true of all of biology.
It goes the same way.
So, there's a slight indirection
which is basically the higher level of organization
can't directly control what the lower level is gonna do, right?
Or you can set the conditions for it.
I guess it gives you more possibilities to do things
or I give you less, but within that space,
I just have to trust that the tendencies are the right ones.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Excellent, yeah.
Thanks so much.
This has been very helpful.
Yeah, I think it's a really interesting framework.
So, yeah, lots and lots to talk about.
Great, yes, thank you.
I look forward to seeing how you work with this experimentally
when you start intervening at these different stages.
I think that's gonna be very insightful.
Yeah, yeah, well, we'll talk more
because I wanna get your thoughts on some of the,
basically using some of the brain clinical data
to inform how we do some of the things in cells.
So, we'll talk.
Yeah, yeah, I think that there's a new horizon
opening up with this way of thinking.
Suddenly, we can quantify these things
and then everything changes.
Yeah, yeah.
