One of the ways to think about the large subunit
is this monolithic hemisphere that's growing and growing.
And the small subunit is like a dendrite
with these sort of flexible things.
The small subunit and the large subunit
have different evolutionary origins.
They have different structures and they are very different.
For a long time, we were stumped to figure out
why the large and small subunit were so different.
But I can tell you why.
I think we have an idea for it.
Yes?
So one of the other processes that happens in many languages
is a reduction of genomes or simplification,
especially in parasites or in specialist microbes.
Do these also shrink their ribosomes?
Yeah.
Yeah, I showed you Giardia.
Yes, there's some small ribosomes.
And in organelles, the ribosomal RNA
shrunk, the ribosomal proteins have gotten increased
in quantity.
And in plants, the chloroplast ribosomes are like,
some of them are gigantic.
All kinds of crazy things go on in chloroplasts.
So yeah, this is cytoplasmic ribosomes here.
OK.
All right, so this was all introduction
to what I really want to talk about, which
is the origins of the ribosome.
So let's talk about that for a minute.
So this is one of the things we saw a while ago that
sort of opened a big, big door to us,
that when the ribosome expands, and we know a lot about
ribosomal expansions, because we have all these structures
of eukaryotic ribosomes.
So we know the structures of ribosomes of various sizes.
And we know them in a lot of detail.
And there's a lot of them now.
It's really good.
So when ribosome expands, it does this thing.
So I'm going to show you.
This blue thing is a prokaryotic ribosome, part
of the prokaryotic ribosome.
And the red is part of a eukaryotic ribosome,
except I've colored this part.
This is also eukaryotic.
And what you can see here, this is what I mean by accretion,
is the eukaryotic part has expanded out
of the prokaryotic part.
So this is a recent growth on the ribosome.
And it turns out that there is a very distinct structural
fingerprint when that happens.
And so we looked at a lot of these.
These are called expansion segments.
We looked at a lot of these expansion segments.
Here are some of them.
You see, the blue is the old, and then the red and the green
are the new.
And here's, so this is helix 38.
This is helix 24.
And so there is a very distinct structural fingerprint
when the ribosome grows.
We call this an insertion fingerprint.
I won't go into the structural details,
but you can see, you can recognize this.
So basically, you have a nice helix,
and you grow another helix out without perturbing this one.
I mean, really, look at the nucleotides here
are essentially in the same place.
You can grow one of the amazing things about RNA,
which we think is like a critical structural element
of RNA, is that you can insert things out of it,
and you can do these elaborations
without changing the underlying structure.
And protein, you can't really do this.
When you add something to protein,
it really perturbs the backbone structure
because it's so much more constrained.
RNA structure, the backbone, has a lot of degrees of freedom,
and so it allows you to do these insertions
without messing up the underlying structure.
So this is what we call an insertion fingerprint
that we see in the ribosome.
So we know this.
This is like, I don't know what it is,
it's eukaryotic, and this is some prokaryotic.
And this is another one.
Now, this is different.
This is a place where we looked in the ribosome
in the universal part of the ribosome, and we faked it.
We cut this off, and we resealed it with a computer.
So here we have walked back in time,
and we have tried to simulate what this process looked
like in the universal part of the ribosome.
So the idea is that by seeing these fingerprints
in the parts of the ribosome we know has grown,
we can look in the ancient, universally conserved part
of the ribosome, and we can figure out how that grew.
Does that make sense?
And just for example, this is DRNA.
When Paul Schimmel, when he was here,
I actually did this experiment for us,
where he didn't think about it in this context,
but he actually cut this off and made this red part of RNA.
And it's charged.
This is Paul's mini helix.
So we see the same kind of insertion fingerprints in TRNA.
So we can use these insertion fingerprints
to figure out how RNA grows, even if we don't have
a series of structures.
Once we recognize the fingerprint,
then we can look at any RNA, and we can say,
this is where a growth event took place.
Does that make sense?
So these are two observed ones.
This is an inferred one.
This is an observed one, but we don't
have the ancestor of TRNA, except the one that Paul made.
OK, so this is basically, this is the part you can decide
whether you want to believe me or not.
So we observe that the modern ribosome grew and is growing
by this accretion process.
That's an observation.
And we observe that the modern ribosome,
some of these growth events left these very distinct
observable fingerprints.
So these are things we know to be true.
Then we make these two assumptions.
We assume that the common core, the universal part,
also grew by accretion.
And we assume that it also has these fingerprints.
So this we don't know, because all the universal part
is the same in everything.
So we don't know this.
We're just assuming this.
So if you don't want to believe these assumptions are
credible, then that's fine.
But this is our working model.
So then based on that, we can look in the common core
and we can figure out how it grew.
So it's like, this is, I think, a really good analogy.
You've seen trees grow, so you know how they grow.
So if I gave you some yellow sticky tabs,
and I said, I want you to give me the yellow dates of everything
on this tree.
I want you to give me the relative dates of everything
on this tree.
You could do it, right?
The leaves are the most recent, the big branches.
Because the tree grows by accretion.
If this tree died every year and then grew back,
then it wouldn't work.
But since a tree, it records its history,
it maintains its history, it keeps adding and adding.
And so you can go in, like right there,
that's the oldest part right in the center.
So the ribosome for us is just like this tree.
We can look at the universal part of the ribosome,
and we can date everything in the ribosome.
Because just like you're familiar with how a tree grows,
we know how the ribosome grows.
So what this means is that the molecular record
of the origin of life, and I call the origin of the ribosome
is the origin of life, is maintained
in the translation system.
Because these fingerprints of growth
are recorded for us in the ribosome.
I believe that says the same thing in Spanish.
I gave a talk in Mexico, and they translated.
But I really don't know that.
OK, so now we're looking at the common core.
This is the part of the ribosome that
is universal to everything alive.
And every place the color changes,
we see one of those insertion fingerprints.
So there's a lot of them.
And the secondary structure is not
a very good representation of three-dimensional structure.
So it might not make sense here.
But so what we know is this green is older than that red,
which is older than that green, which is we know the dates,
and we know the specific events by which the ribosome grew.
We don't know all of them, because we also
know that sometimes helices elongate.
And when that happens, there's no fingerprint left.
So we're not seeing everything.
We're seeing some things.
We know the lot of growth events took place that we don't see,
but we see a lot of them.
In fact, we see enough.
In fact, we see more than we want to,
because we don't really know what to do with all of this.
There's 56 in the large subunit, and I
don't remember, 26 in the small subunit.
And that's actually a lot.
Did you have a question?
What is the degradation after a while?
Only in general, no.
The general process of the ribosome is it grows.
