Thanks for coming to our first Origin of Life IAP seminar this year.
Today we have Lauren Williams from Georgia Tech.
So Lauren is a biochemist that studies the origin of life,
especially from the perspective of the origins of the ribosome, translation,
and how that intersects with some of the earliest polymers and biomolecules
that would have arisen in prebiotic systems on Earth
and some of the earliest complex macromolecular systems
that we might think of as being alive.
So we'll just jump in with Lauren's talk
and then afterward we will have a Q&A session with the audience
for as long as people are happy to stick around.
Thanks.
Great.
Thank you guys for coming out and hearing me.
Yeah, so I'm going to sort of be talking about the Origin of Life,
but I have sort of an unusual take on the Origin of Life,
which is that I don't have any model that I am advancing or that I even like.
I'm just obsessed by the ribosome,
and we just try to read the history of the ribosome as far back as we can,
trying to understand the evolutionary origins of the ribosome.
It turns out, I didn't know this in the beginning,
but that, as far as I can see, is the origins of the ribosome
and the origins of life are sort of the same thing.
So that's kind of how I came to be working on the origins of life,
really just trying to understand the evolution of the ribosome.
So I really don't know who my audience is quite,
but I thought I would give a little bit of introduction to what the translation system is.
The translation system is this really special thing in biology.
The way to think about it is the transduction of information between two polymers
that are in different chemical spaces.
So you have mRNA down here, and you have protein coming out here,
and of course the sequence of the mRNA dictates the sequence of the protein.
And one of the reasons why translation is sort of special
is because the information is going between polymers that are chemically distinct.
If you think about replication and transcription,
there's a famous line in Watson and Crick's paper where it says something like,
it has not escaped our notice, you guys probably know this,
that the mechanism of replication is immediately obvious from the structure we propose.
So as soon as they saw the structure of DNA, they could say,
yeah, we can kind of understand how this molecule could replicate.
But translation is totally different.
You can look at the structure of RNA and the structure of protein
and try to understand how information passes between them,
and it's not at all obvious.
Even now, the more we know about the ribosome, the less obvious it is.
We have these two really distinct polymers.
There are different chemical spaces.
They have nothing to do with each other chemically.
One is polyanionic, one is neutral, one assembles by its backbone,
one assembles by its side chains.
These are in totally different chemical spaces,
and yet we can transduce information between them.
So this is a special part of biology.
This is, I believe, biology's crowning achievement.
I'm obsessed by the ribosome, by the way.
But the ribosome is how you get information between two polymers
that have nothing to do with each other chemically.
It's a very special thing in biology.
So we have the small subunit.
It's nice because things are kind of separated for us.
We have the small subunit, which is where decoding takes place.
And we have the large subunit,
which is where the chemical reaction takes place.
It's called the peptidyl transferase reaction.
Just some players.
We have tRNAs that are charged.
I mean, you have an amino acid on a tRNA,
and you have 20 synthetases that actually do that charging.
This is where the genetic code is kind of maintained and enforced
by these 20 synthetases that put the right amino acid
on the right tRNA.
That's the genetic code of that relationship.
These subunits, when we're not doing translation,
they can live separately.
They're happy, independent of each other.
They're stable.
They don't associate really until it's time to actually do the work,
make the molecule.
This is, of course, a cartoon I got from the web someplace.
I want to talk about this part right here.
This is a special place.
This is the tunnel.
This doesn't really show up very well.
This is called the exit tunnel.
The exit tunnel is, I look at sort of like the birth canal of protein.
It's a sort of special place that protects protein
and keeps it from being functional,
and it kind of slowly delivers it into the world.
In fact, the evolution of the tunnel is so important to the ribosome
and the function of the tunnel is so important to the ribosome.
In fact, until we really could understand the evolution of the ribosome,
we didn't really get how important the tunnel was.
But the tunnel is central.
When you think about the evolution of the large subunit,
you should really think about the evolution of the tunnel.
The evolution of the large subunit is really all about the tunnel
and I'll show you that in a while.
that in a while.
OK, so it's a tunnel, is that right?
No, it's a tunnel.
We've sliced through here.
It's a tunnel.
In fact, this tunnel was discovered by Alex Rich here
at MIT originally.
It's a tunnel.
This is a slice through.
No, it's a tunnel.
It's a long tunnel.
OK, so this is one of the peculiar things
about the ribosome, about the translation system,
that when we talk about universal biology, things
that are universal to you and to bacteria and to archaea,
those things are essentially the translation system.
This is called what I call the universal gene set of life.
These are the genes that are observed in everything alive.
And I've color coded them.
It's kind of faint here.
But the ones that are related to translation are pink.
And the ones that are related to transcription
are blue, replication.
There, I don't see any replication.
And there's this little outlier.
I don't know what that's about.
And this is not the full list, because this
is none of the genes that encode for RNAs.
So the genes that encode for tRNAs and ribosomal RNAs
are not there.
If they were on this list, there would be a lot more pink.
So the point of this is that the universal genes in biology
or the universal gene set of biology
is essentially the translation system.
And this is a problem in the origin of life
because when we think about the origin of life, at least
many people, they think about replication.
Biology is all about replication.
And we would really like it if these were all genes
to do with replication, because then that
would make sense that the universal gene set of life
would tell us about the origin of life.
I think it still is, but I think it's not telling us
what we want to hear.
So the origin of life is really about the origin
of translation.
That's what I'm saying.
And the standard models are, if you think about RNA world,
et cetera, it's all about replication.
But I think the ribosome is telling us
we need to think about things a little differently.
So everything alive has these genes, these genes.
Everything alive has a ribosome.
In fact, the definition of biology to me
is something that translates.
If you do translation, you're alive.
Like viruses are not alive until they get control of a cell,
and then they can do translation, and then they're alive.
So anything with a ribosome is alive.
Anything without a ribosome is not alive.
That sounds kind of like a trivial statement.
But really what it means is that, to me,
biology is defined as the transduction
of information between dissimilar polymers.
That's my definition of life.
That's what I think NASA, if they
want to look for life on Mars, that's
what they need to look for.
Because that's the special universal part
about biology on Earth.
OK.
So this is the Banfield, the recent Tree of Life,
which I have kind of distorted and bent.
But this is everything alive pretty much is represented here.
And you can see that life is mostly bacterial,
that there's some archaea.
And then Eukary has really, we're a branch of archaea.
That seems to be, I don't know if Greg
agrees with this Tree of Life.
There's a lot of different Trees of Life.
I like this Tree of Life.
I like this version because it really
shows you how bacterial the biosphere is.
If when we think about biology, we always think about us,
Eukaryotes, and we're so interesting.
But really, the genetic diversity of biology
is all out here in bacteria.
OK, so but the reason this is a Tree of Life
is that everything translates.
In fact, what this is, is the distance relationships
between translation systems.
That's what this Tree amounts to.
In fact, you couldn't make a Tree from anything else
because nothing else is universal.
If you tried to make a Tree of Life from membrane biosynthesis,
you couldn't do it because there's
no universal membrane biosynthesis.
There's no way everything could be on the same Tree.
The only way you can make a Tree of Life
is using translation.
In fact, if you look at Carl Woos and how
he discovered the third branch, the archaeal branch
of the Tree of Life, it was because he used the translation
