In some of these systems, like in organelles and in pathogens,
like guillardia, then we do.
But in general, no.
We don't see very much cutting back.
So it just keeps growing.
Keeps growing, yeah.
That's what we see.
But that has nothing to do with strength.
Well, proteins, we equate proteins with strength, don't we?
R and A.
Yeah, but no, I would say not strength.
I say the bigger the eukaryotic ribosomes
can produce more sophisticated proteins that
are more problematic as far as misfolding.
And so they have to be.
So that's one of the things about the increase in size.
I mean, I can show you what, later on,
I'll show you why the ribosome is increasing in size.
At least in the up to Luca, I can show you that.
I think I know.
I think I know.
OK, so there were so many of these things
that we didn't know what to do with them.
So we grouped them.
We simplified it.
We just grouped them in what seemed to us a reasonable way.
So instead of having 56 growth events in the large subunit,
we have six phases.
And that's just we've grouped them.
So just to be clear of what we have here,
we know where growth events occurred.
And we know their order in many cases,
like this because of the dependence.
And then we have some other information,
like let me just give you an example.
OK, everybody has to close their eyes for a minute.
OK, have your eyes closed?
OK, now let's say I did that.
You can open your eyes.
Now, let's say I did this with only one hand.
And I put my coffee there, and that my laser pointer,
which one did I put first?
Right, how do you know that?
Yeah, we call it dependency.
This laser pointer is dependent on the coffee cup,
and the coffee cup is not dependent on the laser pointer.
And we use this all the time in our daily lives
when we look at things.
Like if you see a rake leaning on a fence,
you know the fence was there before the rake
because of this dependence thing.
OK, turns out RNA structure has these sort of things built
in.
One class of them are called A minor interactions,
where you have something just like this.
You have a helix, and then you have another stem
coming in and grabbing it.
And Sergey Steinberg worked out that the helix
is older than this donor part of the A minor interaction.
So we have these sort of dependencies
built into the ribosome that are part of our model also.
So yes?
How many different types of fingerprints
that indicate both are there?
We have this paper where we list them all.
They're basically all, the vast majority of them
are the ones that I showed.
I think there are some cases where helix elongate,
and we can see the effect of that elongation on other RNA,
I think.
But essentially, the vast majority of our growth events
we infer are these fingerprints.
And especially here, I'm not sure if I had it on a slide,
but in the oldest part of the RNA,
we have a lot of really beautiful.
I mean, it's just so detailed what
we can see in the deepest, deepest oldest part of the RNA.
It was a very clean growth process there.
So this means we have a model of how
the ribosome originated, the common part, the part before
Luca.
We can look back before the last universal common ancestor,
and we can see how the ribosome grew.
And this is based on structure, right?
I haven't really talked about sequence.
And it's molecular.
And it's atomic level, right?
We know the positions of the atoms,
and how the atoms change over time.
So there's a very, very detailed atomic level
model of ribosomal evolution.
And this is what I haven't explained to you.
It actually shows us the origins of RNAs.
And I don't mean of RNAs.
I mean of RNA.
I want to get this small r out.
It really shows us the origins of RNA,
and it really shows us the origin of prokine.
That's what I'm going to show you next.
And this is experimentally testable,
because these are all atomic level models.
And we make them, and we test their predictions.
We look at their folding and their function in the lab.
That's one of the things we do in my lab.
We make all of these.
It's fine to draw pictures on the screen,
but you've got to actually make the molecules.
OK, another thing I want to say about this.
Where are my time-wives?
OK, that's good.
OK.
Is that one of the interesting things about RNA in general
and the ribosome in particular is that function
is kind of separated in space in the ribosome.
So if we know sort of the order of addition
of these various structural units,
we actually know the order of addition of function.
We can say what happened when.
And so one of the things really important is the interface.
The interface happened after the green part.
So this tells us right away that the two subunits
had independent lives before they ever met up.
There was an ancestor of a large subunit
and an ancestor of a small subunit,
and they were doing something before the interface.
That's just one of the, and there's
a lot of different sort of functional things
we can say about the order of what
happened in the ribosome.
OK, now I want to talk about the tunnel.
The tunnel is, this is not something
we anticipated or built into our model at all,
but it's something we noticed right away.
OK, so I'm going to walk through the evolution of the ribosome
according to the phases.
This is a large subunit we're looking at.
And we're just going to walk through dark blue.
We're going to add each phase as it was added.
And we are looking right down the tunnel.
But the tunnel doesn't exist yet, right?
Because this is the oldest piece of RNA.
This is your mother, right?
This is that dark blue thing.
We believe the oldest piece of RNA in the known universe.
That is where the ribosome comes from.
There is no piece of RNA we know of that rivals this thing in age.
And then this gets added on.
So right away, we get, it's not a tunnel, it's just a pore.
But one of the first things that happens is the pore.
Then it gets longer.
Then it gets longer and it gets rigidified.
Actually, in fact, this green, you
can't really see this here.
This green thing right here, this wraps all around.
This is a donut around the tunnel.
So this green phase right here, this green phase
is essentially building the tunnel.
That is what that's about.
And then the yellow, you can see the tunnel gets bigger.
And then the orange adds to the tunnel.
And then the red adds to the tunnel.
So every single phase of ribosomal evolution
is building the tunnel.
And so we think about this kind of like Huckleberry fin.
There's all these stories, but really the Mississippi River.
People still read Huckleberry fin?
I've read it when I was young.
The Mississippi River is the theme.
All the stories are kind of wrapped around that.
That's the way you should think about the evolution
of the ribosome.
The ribosome is all about the tunnel.
Building the tunnel.
There was a lot of other things that happened,
but they happened at one point and then nothing.
You build an interface, then you're done.
You do this, then you're done.
But the tunnel, every single phase of ribosomal evolution
builds a tunnel.
And why is that?
What does that mean?
Building the tunnel.
You can see it's a really long tunnel.
This tells you really, I think, that the ribosome
is all about protein.
And since this is a protein, especially in the early ribosome,
think about it.
Before there was a small subunit,
the ribosome was synthesizing something.
And basically, this is before the small subunit, right here.
So the tunnel was there.
We don't have a small subunit yet.
We're not making coding.
There can't be any coding.
We're making something, and it's going through a tunnel.
And before that, the tunnel was shorter.
So somehow give a longer tunnel conferred advantage.
Maybe it allowed the ribosome to make longer products.
And some of those products bound back and stuck to it
and made it better.
