system to do it.
He used ribosomal RNA sequences, and he
could make a universal Tree of Life.
If he had used anything else besides translation,
we never would have heard of him.
Maybe he would have done something else.
I don't know.
But he certainly would not have discovered archaea.
He could only do that because somehow he
was wise enough to know that translation was
the universal biology.
And I've read his letters.
He actually wrote some letters to Francis Crick
about he deliberately chose translation.
And he said, translation has got to be
the oldest part of biology.
It's got to be the core of biology.
So I'm going to use the translation system
to answer the deepest, oldest questions in biology.
So this, to me, is one of the smartest, most profound
thinkers in recent science history, I think, Carl Woos.
OK.
So we're trying to understand the origins of the ribosome.
And we need to go beyond this universal gene thing.
And what we've done is with a lot of labor,
we've gone into all the ribosomal genes and structures
and everything.
He said, what is universal about the ribosome itself?
So that's what this is.
These red parts, this is the bacterial ribosome.
This is an archaeal ribosome.
This is a eukaryotic ribosome.
And the colored parts are the universal thing.
They're the thing that everything has.
So for example, if you look at this helix right there,
let's look at that helix right there.
It's there.
And it's there.
So it's blue.
Everything alive has that helix.
If we look at most of the, OK, if we look at this,
that thing right here, see, it's different down here.
So this is actually, this is something
we're going to talk about here.
See that black there?
That's because this helix is different in archaea.
And then it becomes really gigantic in eukarya.
So the black parts are the part that are non-universal.
So the main point of this is this is just
looking at the E. coli version of this.
And the blue parts are the universal part.
So the point I want you to take away
this is to a first approximation,
the bacterial ribosome is universal to everything alive.
What it means is you and the microbes in your gut
and everything alive has these blue parts.
These colored parts are what are different.
So another way to say that is you
have bacterial ribosomes inside of you.
Everything alive has a bacterial ribosome.
But not exactly because there are expansions.
In fact, these colored regions here, these gray regions,
excuse me, are where the eukaryotic ribosome has sort
of sent out various things.
So yes?
So if you compare just bacteria and archaea,
is it blue all over?
No.
Where does it differ?
Well, I mean, this is eukaryotic.
So for example, he looks 25 here.
See how big it is?
I'm talking about the small.
Oh, it's small.
OK.
See that?
So there's differences.
There's differences.
This is a small subunit.
Yeah, right?
See that?
See, that's larger in bacteria than in archaea.
So there are differences.
One of the things you can see in archaea
is, in general, you can sort of anticipate eukaryotic.
A lot of the places where there is divergence here,
like this is an archaea, this is larger than in bacteria,
and then it's like way larger in archaea.
So there's a lot of places where you
can see that archaea is on the road to eukaryotic
as far as the expansions.
Expansions aren't there, but you can see it's kind of bubbling
away.
It's about ready to explode into sort
of this eukaryotic expansion.
You can see that in archaea.
OK.
So this is basically the point I want to make here
is that the bacterial ribosome is universal.
It's pretty much to everything alive.
Basically, the blue parts here are universal.
But now let's go into three dimensions and look at that.
So now we're looking at the backbone trace
of part of the bacterial ribosome.
We're ignoring sequence.
In fact, in my lab, we're really structural.
We look at phylogeny by sequence.
We don't really look too much at what we use.
So we use structure.
We really don't focus on sequence too much.
So this is the bacterial part of the bacterial ribosome.
This is part of the arcane ribosome.
This is part of the eukaryotic ribosome.
And you can see how similar these things are.
The atoms basically have not moved.
And then to go into the lunatic fringe of evolution,
where things happen in crazy ways,
we can look at mitochondria.
This is a human mitochondrial RNA.
And so this is basically four billion years of evolution
for nothing.
Over four billion years, nothing has happened.
In fact, one time I took RMSDs of these atoms
and converted it to miles per hour
because we have four billion years
and we have about a quarter of an angstrom of RMSD.
And you can convert that to miles per hour.
That's how fast the ribosome is changing.
It was very slow.
I don't remember what the number was,
but it was a very small number.
So one of the ways to say is you can,
I predict that in two billion years,
nothing is going to happen.
Some people say you can't predict
what's going to happen in biology.
I can predict confidently.
In fact, I'm going to write this in cement
and blast it into outer space and say,
the ribosome is not going to change in two billion years.
That's my prediction.
I will bet money on that.
Okay, but that's just the core.
On the external ribosome, this is really what's happening.
So this is this common core.
I'm just showing you the large subunit.
I'm focusing on the large subunit here.
And this is the part that's universal to everything.
But then eukaryotes have another shell
around the outside of that.
That's called the eukaryotic shell.
And then metazoans, especially, it's very strange.
I'm not sure what this is, but we're now
in what we call the octopus phase,
where the ribosome has sent out these tentacles
that are really long, I mean, immensely long.
I think this is the longest double helical RNA
in all of biology, I would bet.
I don't really know that, but I've been saying that
and nobody's contradicted me.
So if anybody knows a longer one,
these are hundreds of angstroms long
of double helical RNA that shoot out
and they're not integrated with the ribosome.
Okay, they're out there, hanging in space.
And we're doing a lot of work in our lab.
We're doing pull down experiments,
trying to figure out what proteins these bind to,
trying to understand these things.
We don't fully understand, but it has to do
with warm blood, you know, chickens, humans,
you know, metazoans have these tentacles.
They're really interesting and nobody knows what they do.
Actually, so this is a human ribosome.
And I'm showing you, these are these tentacles.
And so they're hard to see,
like this is a cryo-EM structure of Beckman, I think.
And so this part that comes out,
we're only seeing like this part of it.
This is the B helix.
So this thing shoots way out.
You can see on the scale of the ribosome,
this thing goes way, way out here.
Okay, so these are enormous tentacles.
And if you imagine polyribosomes, you know,
we have these big arms of RNA waving out in space.
We think these are docking sites for proteins,
you know, they have to do with protein quality control
and maybe degradation of misfolded proteins, et cetera.
So that's what we think these are about.
Okay, so actually, so this is just that.
I wanna focus, what we call expansion segment seven.
That's this purple part right here.
And we've done a lot of work with expansion segment seven.
And here we have mapped it
onto the eukaryotic phylogenetic tree.
So you can see things like,
these are like, you know, giardia pathogens
that are kind of dependent on their hosts.
They really, they look almost like bacteria there.
