event, which was the doubling of tRNA.
In fact, because we do know that tRNA was a stem loop, and
it just, boom, it doubled.
It inserted and doubled.
So initially, you have the amino acid acceptor step.
Then all of a sudden, you get the anticodon 70
angstroms away.
And that doubling, we believe, drove the association of the
subunits.
Before that doubling event, there was no reason for the
large subunit and the small subunit to talk to each other.
So actually, the precipitous event was the doubling of
tRNA, which drove the development of the two subunits.
So that, we think, was maybe a precipitous event, the doubling.
Everything tRNA is what really drove that.
If you didn't have the anticodon 70 angstroms away from the
amino acid, for an enzyme, this is a crazy amount of
distance, right?
And that was kind of an amazing event during the
evolution of the ribosome.
And there's no reason for the subunits to ever come
together before that happens.
Does that sort of answer your question?
But we don't think anything was precipitous, except a
doubling event is by nature sort of precipitous.
Yes?
I'm one of those geologists in the audience where a lot of
the terminology goes over my head.
I understand space into the science.
I appreciate the sort of layman's way you presented it.
But one of the things that concerns me a little bit, you
keep using term by learning and teaching molecules and
intelligence embedded in the terminology you're using,
product or layman to understand.
I'm assuming these are all happy accidents that survive
and gain advantages, as opposed to unhappy accidents
which cause the extinction of the ones that just went away.
I don't know if I called them accidents.
I guess I would say, so this is sort of the way to think
about it, is that we think there was enormous numbers of
ribosomes that were different, involving all different
kinds of polymers and everything.
And we're only looking at the winner.
So it's not necessarily an accident is sort of a result
of a statistical process.
And you're right, you shouldn't say learning and
teaching, you know, they're molecules.
Yeah, I mean RNA did not teach protein to fold.
RNA selected for protein that folded is actually the correct
way to teach it.
Even in the discussion of the tunnel that you talked about,
the tunnel is obviously early for reform, and it had some
function we don't fully understand.
Obviously, the next happy accident is going to block the
tunnel and make it useless, so it had to grow somewhere.
We think the original function of the tunnel was to keep the
ends.
The problem with making peptides abiotically is the ends
come around and cyclize and kill the polymerization.
I'm saying it wasn't growing to make the tunnel bigger on
purpose, but it didn't block the tunnel so it couldn't work.
It made it bigger, it had a happy accident, it could do
something new that would have been dangerous.
Yeah, I guess the reason I don't like the word accident is
that it makes it seem like kind of an unusual event.
What we think is there was a statistical process of all
kinds of things going on.
Everything was tried.
Even now, in biology, when we think about the expansions of
the ribosome, we say, oh, this expanded.
Actually, everything's happening, but we're only
looking at the survivors, right?
So that's kind of the way to think about it, yeah.
We think the original function of the tunnel, when it was a
pore, was to keep the ends apart.
Because when you make a dipeptide, it just
recyclizes, and that's it.
You're done.
And that's very stable and happens really readily.
And so it looks like really that the initial function of
the ribosome is to allow you to go beyond that and make a
trimer, that we think the original pepital transferase
center, that was really what it was about.
And some fraction of those stuck to it and allowed it to
survive and then sort of bootstrap this tunnel thing.
So Lord.
I have one last comment for you.
Obviously, you are dreaming about ribosomes, and that is
a beautiful, your talk was spectacular.
The only problem is that the code comes in with the
synthesizers, and the evolution of the tRNA is
coupled to the evolution of the synthesizers.
There's things called the operational code in the arm.
And the question really then is, and there's the anti-codon
interaction.
So the question that I think you should think a little
carefully about was, how does this correlate?
What happened in the synthetases with what's
happening on the ribosome?
I agree totally.
Absolutely.
And the sophomore finding on the evolution of the
synthetases.
Anyway, all I'm trying to say to you is the ribosome is part
a mutual system with the synthetases.
I think you should think a little more carefully about that.
One thing, let me say this.
The oldest, this is a ribosomal protein.
This is what we think is the oldest ribosome.
And you see, this looks a lot like a synthetase, right?
The conserved oldest synthetases are the same fold.
So the evolution of synthetases cannot be extracted from the
evolution of ribosomal proteins.
There are a couple.
Yeah, OK.
The question is, which end of the question?
All right.
I agree with you.
Any time for one last question?
OK, well, let's thank Laura again.
Thank you, guys, for coming on the same channel.
