So we think that basically the ribosome
synthesized a bunch of stuff, probably a bunch of useless stuff.
A small fraction of it bound back, conferred advantage.
And the bigger those things got, the bigger
the ribosome could get.
So big tunnel, bigger products, and you just
went around and around in a circle.
So that it wasn't necessarily synthesizing proteins.
I didn't say proteins.
I don't believe it was proteins.
Alex Rich, you heard of MIT?
Do you guys heard of Alex Rich?
No?
Really?
Are you all geologists?
OK.
OK.
Alex Rich, who discovered the tunnel,
also showed that the ribosome can make polyester.
The ribosome doesn't have.
If you put the wrong thing on tRNAs,
ribosome doesn't have to make polypeptide.
Ribosome can do a lot of chemistry.
So we think, at this point, the ribosome
was probably making polyester, or thylester,
or things like this.
There's no reason why it.
In fact, if you look at abiotic chemistry,
if you look at the Murchison meteorite, for example,
there's a lot of oxyacids, there's
more oxyacids than amino acids in the Murchison meteorite.
So I can't think of any reason why the ribosome was not
making polyester at this point.
And some of those polyesters were binding back
onto the ribosome and conferring advantage.
And it didn't have to be very good.
It only had to be better than the competition,
and probably the competition.
If you're the first, the competition wasn't very good.
So the ribosome was a terrible enzyme.
It was doing a really bad job, but it was just good enough.
OK.
So now, this is kind of an amazing thing we can see.
If we look in the ribosome, we know
the dates of all the RNA, the relative ages of all the RNA
in the ribosome.
The ribosome has a lot of proteins, too.
I haven't talked about those yet.
The large subunit has 30 proteins.
And we look at those proteins, and we can date them.
And we do that by the RNA that's around it.
So this polypeptide has old RNA.
This polypeptide has less old.
And this polypeptide has less old.
So I've color coded it.
Actually, I've color coded it exactly the same way here.
We don't have a way of dating the protein the way
we date the RNA.
We date it really by the RNA that's around it.
That's how we date the protein.
And so when the protein passes between a phase
in three dimensions, we slice it.
OK?
That's what these slices are.
So this part is in the green phase.
This part is in the yellow phase.
This part is in the orange phase.
OK.
So we can date the proteins.
And look what we see.
There's a lot of protein, so this isn't just anecdotal.
The oldest part of the protein is not folded correctly.
It looks like what we call frozen random coil.
In fact, we believe this protein,
this is before protein learned to fold.
In fact, it was maybe not even protein.
It was ester and things that we didn't learn to fold.
I mean, it wasn't chemically the right thing.
This was ester.
You can't make a beta sheet out of ester.
So we think we're looking very far back in biology here.
We're looking at protein before it was protein, right?
This is a fossil now.
It's now it's polypeptide.
But we think we're looking at the molecular record
of what it was before that.
And then we see this thing here.
So look at this.
This is what we call a beta-beta structure, right?
Two beta strands.
And in general, in biology, you do not
see isolated beta strands.
You see a lot of beta strands in various proteins,
but you don't see isolated with no protein around.
This is what we see in the protein.
These are all isolated beta-beta structures.
And by isolated, I mean they're wrapped in RNA.
These are not isolated from everything.
They're isolated from other proteins.
So these are all structured proteins
that have starting to learn how to fold,
and they are doing this in a C of RNA.
So we believe that the RNA is essentially
teaching the protein to fold.
And these are molecules, obviously, you don't teach them.
But basically, the RNA is selecting
for molecules that can fold into these structures,
and they stick to the ribosome and confer advantage.
That's what I really mean by that.
And so this can be ester, but not fully,
because this has to be a proton donor.
So this cannot be an ester.
This can be an ester.
So this can be a mixture of ester.
See, this part here can be 100% ester.
This can be maybe 50% ester.
This has to be 0% ester, right?
So we're seeing a chemical evolution of polypeptide
in the ribosome.
And so this is mapped, all of the sort of statistical data
we see, mapped out of the phases of the ribosome.
So the oldest part of the ribosome is this blue part.
We don't see any protein there.
We think this is older than protein.
So RNA seemed to have lead protein in biology.
Then we see this frozen random coil.
Then we see these collapse, what we call beta-beta structures.
Then we see beta-domain proteins.
Then we see these more complicated folds.
And then the next phase, which I don't have here,
which is the protist phase, the proteins
have reached out and started to touch each other.
So we can see that this looks like what's
called a protein-folding funnel.
But it's not.
It's really just proteins taken out of the ribosome.
But this is a history of protein folding,
which is mapped into the ribosome.
Yes?
So do you think that the amino acids that
you made, these proteins, as you evolve the ribosome,
were all 20 amino acids were there at the beginning?
Because in order to get alpha helices, you need hydrophobics.
And if you look at how you make amino acids today
from the citric acid cycle, hydrophobics
are hard with making glycine or prolinegine.
And those are the ones that would fold without complicated
folds.
So it really is a measure of the amino acids
that are available in the proteins that they're making.
I mean, that's what we've published.
I've read your papers.
So yes.
High rights, great papers.
This is a high-hard menu, guys.
So now I've totally lost my train of thought.
All right, thanks a lot.
Yeah, we don't really know from our data,
we don't know specifically what the amino acid
sequences are.
But I think it's safe to say that there
had to be cationic amino acids here.
This is not going to stick to the ribosome.
But let me tell you guys, we are doing this experiment
in the lab.
We can make abiotic peptides.
My collaborator, Nick Cut, has figured out
how to use dry-down cycles, take pre-abiotic components,
and make peptides.
And we can select for things that bind RNA.
We can actually recapitulate this in the lab.
And that is something we're doing right now.
And we have to make guesses.
In fact, we believe, like for example, now
we have lysine and arginine.
Those are the two cationic amino acids.
But as high outlined in his paper,
previously, the sort of abiotic ancestors of those
were probably shorter cationic amino acids.
And so we're using those sorts of things in our experiments.
So this is the origin.
OK, so let me just put everything on the same scale here.
This is the evolution of the ribosome
that we can see assume.
And our two assumptions are that the ribosome grew
by accretion early on, just like it did late.
And that these insertion fingerprints
mean the same thing now that they meant previously.
So that's our assumption.
But assuming that assumption, we really
have a very detailed molecular model of the ribosome.
And along with that, we have a molecular model
of protein folding that comes out of this.
And so we also have, I haven't really shown it here,
but we can say, when does the GTPA center
get and all of that sort of stuff?
So basically, what I would say to you
is if you wanted to talk about the origin of life, where
you go from chemistry to biology, I would put it here.
Right here, you really don't need,
