But then you get into yeast, it gets bigger.
And then this is the tentacle phase right here,
starting with warmth.
This is right here, chickens,
mouse chimpanzees and humans.
I made this before the election.
I guess I even knew that was my campaigning I failed.
Anyway, you see these long,
and this is, I find this really interesting.
Humans have these long tentacles here.
Chicken, the tentacle is in a different place,
but it still has tentacle.
So there's something about warm blood.
We think maybe complicated brains or something,
because it could have to do with protein misfolding
and the sensitivity of neurons to misfolding.
That these tentacles are,
because we have, when our pull down experiments,
we have seen the proteasome
and other sorts of things involved
in protein quality control associated with these things.
So it's really interesting to think,
the protein makes ribosomes.
I mean, it makes protein,
the ribosome makes protein,
and it has these arms that are holding the proteasome
and it degrades it at the same time.
So in fact, it's known that protein comes
right out of the ribosome,
goes right into the proteasome and gets degraded.
It's made and degraded at the same time.
That's how dangerous misfolded proteins are.
It's very inefficient,
but it's very necessary.
So we think all of these arms have to do
with the sensitivity of metazoans like us
to misfolded proteins.
Bacteria, you can misfold proteins in bacteria,
they don't care, but for us, it's very dangerous.
Okay, so now let's,
this is a nice thing that has just happened recently,
is we can make movies of the ribosome growing
in three dimensions.
And the reason we can do that is because we now have
so many structures of ribosomes,
and we know their relationship on the phylogenetic tree,
and so we can basically watch the ribosome grow
in three dimensions, and I'll show,
and this is unbelievable.
I've shown this in many talks,
and I still get excited every time I show it.
So look at what this looks like.
This bacterial,
this is just this one, helix 25,
and this is the bacterial,
this part of the ribosome,
this is our best approximation of Luca,
the last universal common ancestor.
So this is the oldest part of the ribosome,
and when it gets bigger,
this is how it grows.
So this is what I want you to see.
This base helix stays here,
and something grows out of it.
So this is like a tree growing,
where you just grow a branch out,
but the other branch doesn't die and go away.
So this is an archaea,
then we know that eukarya came out of archaea.
So this is the, so look at,
basically this is the helix that's still here,
and essentially the whole archaean RNA is there.
We actually bent a little bit,
but the yeast has grown bigger things.
It has sent branches out,
and then this is a fruit fly.
So the common ancestor of fruit fly and yeast
is closer to yeast.
So now we, the thing is you can still see
that the fruit fly has its ancestral RNA,
but it has grown additional branches out.
And now if we look at the next step,
here's the human ribosome,
and you can see now our best estimate
for the ancestor of human and fruit fly
is closer to fruit fly.
So you can see that the human has sent,
has basically has maintained its ancestral state
and sent out appendages.
This is what I want you to think about here.
This is like a time-lapse movie of a tree growing, right?
It just adds on, and when it grows new things,
it does not remodel the underlying structure.
So it's like a tree growing.
If you think about a tree accumulating rings, right?
You don't remodel the previous rings,
you just put rings on, and that's called accretion.
So the ribosome grows by accretion,
just like a tree grows by accretion.
And this is a beautiful thing for us
because just like a tree records its own history, right?
You can look at the weather 30 years ago
or whatever by a tree,
because a tree has recorded its history.
The ribosome has recorded its history also, okay?
This helix 25 never, ever goes away.
It is in every ribosome, and that will never go away.
So the history of macromolecular structure at that point
is fixed, and we never lose that history.
So this is an, I won't go over this in detail,
but this is just, we see many of these examples
of this kind of thing.
So we can see that the ribosome grows by accretion.
Okay, so there's a couple points here
I want to make to this.
Firstly, is that the ribosome,
even though I told you everything alive
has the same translation system,
but actually on its periphery, it's changing, right?
So you have a bacterial ribosome inside of you,
but you have a lot of stuff on the outside.
You have that, what we call the protus shell,
the eukaryotic shell,
and then you have these tentacles coming out.
So you have the bacterial ribosome,
but then you have these appendages on it.
And this is sort of a thing we've done.
This is, I don't know what the significance is,
but we have made a graph of the largest ribosome
on the planet versus time.
And so, I don't know really when the origin of life was,
something around four billion years ago,
but we presume there were no ribosomes at that point.
If anybody knows different, I'm open to that.
But then, pretty soon we have fossils,
so we know that the bacterial ribosome
was basically done quite quickly,
the prokaryotic ribosome,
and then nothing happened.
For several billion years, nothing happened.
And now we're in this log phase,
there's something about mammals and warm blood,
and we can predict out another couple billion years,
and the ribosome is gonna truly be gigantic.
So we are in log phase of ribosomal growth right now.
And actually, you could say the same thing
for the spliceosome and for other parts of biology.
This sort of elaboration that is going on
in the most complicated organisms
is just a general phenomenon that you see in the ribosome.
But the size of the ribosome
is a very good proxy for complexity.
If you wanna know how complicated an organism,
just look at the size of its ribosomal RNA,
and that basically, you can scale things like that.
Things with big ribosomal RNAs are complicated, yes.
So why would you expect that the small subunit
doesn't really change that much?
Oh yes, really?
Because actually it doesn't expand.
Yes, you know what it does?
If I scale this up 10 times, it looks the same.
So it is doing it by very small, yes.
And I'll tell you why, because I think
that the small subunit never sees protein.
This is all about protein.
And interactions with protein and delivery of proteins
to various organelles and all sorts of stuff like that, right?
The small subunit is not involved in that, right?
So, yes?
What happens if you scale this ribosome
by the total number of proteins that the organism makes?
The total number, that's a good question.
I don't know that.
That's a really good question.
I don't know, what do you think?
Do we make more proteins than these?
I know we make more than that, too.
Yeah, I don't know, that's a good question.
I don't know the answer to that.
Yeah, but the size of the genome doesn't work.
You know, a lung fish has a genome a hundred times
the size of us, right?
And so basically, in fact, there's
something that used to be called the C-value dilemma, which
is that complexity, organismal complexity,
does not correlate with genome size.
That's for sure.
Yes?
One other thing.
The way the large subunit has grown,
as you have shown so beautifully, is like it's growing bigger
and it's IDM-like.
Whereas the small subunit is not doing that.
It's not growing IDM-like.
And you go back to the origin of the small subunit,
it's growing quite differently than the large subunit.
So you're not getting that sort of IDM-like growth
and the explosion on it, really.
That's right.
