I mean, you need some kind of coding,
but it doesn't have to be much.
I mean, exactly what, this was probably not
fully protein.
And there's no energy transduction here.
This is not a motor.
This is a Brownian diffusive machine.
And this is a totally different beast.
Here, we are transducing energy.
The GTPA center is here.
To make this, this requires coding.
You have to code your protein in order
to make molecules like that.
This thing is capable of being a sophisticated enzyme.
This is not.
So even though this kind of looks there,
everything changes here.
It requires genes.
You need genes to make this, right?
You don't need genes to make that.
I mean, you need some short thing, right?
So this is the transcendental state of the ribosome,
where you have to go from chemistry to biology.
You cannot go through, you cannot get from here to here
without transcription and replication
and all those other things that I'm not even showing.
We don't know what's going on there.
But here, you could say I have some chemical evolutionary
process that can maybe get me here, not here, right?
This is where we go from chemical evolution
to Darwinian evolution at this point.
So OK, I think I can wind up here.
I have a, let me, this is not, I think I'll leave that.
OK, yeah, let me just conclude with this one.
OK, so now let's go back to the Tree of Life.
So this is the sort of state-of-the-art Tree of Life.
And this is Luca.
So Luca is our last universal common ancestor.
And usually, people stop here when they draw the Tree of Life.
They stop at Luca.
But I really don't think that's necessary.
We can go back.
We can see beyond.
So in fact, these are the phases of ribosomal evolution.
And we have extremely detailed information
on what happened before Luca.
So we can look back to the root of the tree.
And we can see what's going on there.
And I want to just conclude with sort of a little bit
of a philosophical kind of statement.
If you look at biology, this is something
that, studying the ribosome, I mean,
maybe I've just gotten weird from studying the ribosome.
I dream about it every night.
So I will confess that.
But if you think about it, I showed you
that RNA taught protein to fold, right?
That's what we see in the ribosome.
We can see protein learning to fold,
but it's doing it in a sea of RNA.
Everything that's happening there is surrounded by RNA.
I didn't really show you this.
I should have.
But the RNA is changing at the same time.
So the old part of the RNA is not really forming base pairs.
It's in these strange sort of non-canonical states.
And as the RNA gets, as it progresses,
as the protein learns to fold, the RNA learns to fold also.
So these molecules are teaching each other what to do
and what to fold.
And so we call this a mutualism relationship.
And this kind of logic is seen everywhere in biology,
where you have systems that take care of each other, right?
You have microbes in your gut that take care of you,
and you take care of them.
And in fact, plants make you oxygen, right?
So this, I mean, it's all for some kind of self-advantage.
But still, biology is just this network of mutualisms.
And we believe that when you think of a cell,
you just think of molecules in mutualism, right?
All RNA is made by protein, right?
All of it.
All protein is made by RNA, right?
So these are molecules that are taking care of each other.
There's making in modern biology that you can certainly
describe them as a mutualism relationship.
And one of the things about mutualism relationships
is the systems co-evolve, right?
They don't, like when you think about a lichen,
you know, you have a fungus, and you have an algae.
And neither of them can live without the other, right?
They become codifanta.
In fact, I guess that's why I, yeah.
OK, think about the mitochondrion, for example.
Your mitochondrion is a cell living inside of your cells,
which is in a symbiotic relationship with its host,
which was some previous cell, right?
And your mitochondrion takes care of the host,
and the host takes care of the mitochondrion, right?
And the mitochondrion has evolved intensely
since that original endosymbiotic event.
So you could not pretend to understand the mitochondrion
except in the context of its host.
And you can't understand the nucleus
except in the context of the mitochondrion, right?
Doesn't make sense to think about these things independently.
And that's how we think about macromolecules, right?
If you want to think about protein,
you cannot think about it.
You cannot understand its evolution
except in context of RNA and vice versa.
This is why these molecules are sort of the antithesis.
This thing assembles with its backbone.
This one assembles with its side chain.
This is neutral.
These molecules are in a yin-yang relationship, right?
Because, and it's not an accident.
It's because they created each other,
and they needed complementary competencies.
So the reason why RNA and protein are so different
is because that's the only thing.
That's the thing that would succeed best.
OK, thank you guys.
Oh, I need to talk about some people.
Anton Petrov is a research scientist in my lab.
And he's been with me a long time.
And he sort of runs my whole bioinformatics program.
He has the ribosome of almost every organism in three
dimensions memorized in his brain.
And in fact, he was visiting, thank you,
Ramakrishna's lab a while ago.
And they had a ribosome structure, and he said,
oh my god, the peptidyl transferase has changed.
This ribosome is different from all other ribosomes.
And they looked, and there was a problem with their refinement.
They had misconnected to nucleotides in their refinements.
That's how detailed Anton's understanding of the ribosomes.
And this is Chad and Nicholas, who
are also helping me with my bioinformatics part.
And then Jessica Bowman is my lab manager,
who sort of does all kinds of, I mean,
she does a lot of great experiments
and has made a lot of the RNAs I've talked about.
And I also need to thank NASA.
I should have a big NASA logo and a little NSF logo here
to scale them to their contributions, but whatever.
I need to thank them for supporting my lab.
And thank you guys for your attention.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It's hot in here.
You did well.
Thanks, Lauren.
That was great.
So we have 15 minutes for general questions from the audience.
And then after that, I would ask the students
that are enrolled in the course to stick around
for our roundtable session with Lauren.
Yes?
That's a great question.
I'll repeat the question.
She said she assumes that the RNA in the ribosome
is protected by proteins, but these long tentacles
seem to be naked and would seem to be very vulnerable
to all kinds of bad things happening to them.
MicroRNAs.
Yes, exactly.
We tried to cut them off with microRNAs, actually.
So one thing is that the ribosome itself is not,
you can't really describe the RNA as being protected by protein.
You know, one of the ways to think about ribosomal RNA
is, I mean, it's a special cast of RNA.
It's been around forever, and it's very selected.
So if you take ribosomal RNA and you just leave it,
sit out on the bench, and you compare it to an mRNA,
an mRNA will degrade, and ribosomal RNA is just so tough.
It's just because it's assembled,
and I guess it's been selected, things that degraded went away.
So ribosomal RNA is the same way.
It just doesn't degrade very quickly.
Now these tentacles, in these structures,
they seem to be naked, but we assume in real biological systems
they're not.
But we don't think they're protected by,
I never thought about protected, but we
think they're docking sites for proteins,
that proteins that are ancillary to ribosomal function
that might change over time and various state of development
or tissue dock onto these sites.
Actually, one really interesting thing I can tell you
is that they are very GC rich.
And so they're really stable, and we
think we have detected G quadruplexes in the human ribosome.
And actually, we can see those sequences in other ones.
So you say, why would there be quadruplexes in these things?
I mean, that must be for protein binding, I would think.
So I don't think they're just naked in real biology.
One of the things to think about in the ribosome,
about a quarter, maybe more of the cell mass of any cell
is ribosome.
