So to a first approximation, you are just a bag of ribosomes.
I mean, that's what we are.
And what it means is that things that bind, even
with low affinity to the ribosome,
will bind to it, because the concentrations are so high.
I mean, it's impossible to be in a cell
and not run into ribosome.
So normally, when we think about things binding in biology,
you think about nanomolar or something.
If you have millimolar affinity for a ribosome in a cell,
you will be binding to a ribosome,
because that's how things are just so concentrated.
Everything in a cell at some level sticks to ribosomes.
They're just so many of them there.
So I don't believe they're, when you purify these things
and you do cryoEM, maybe those proteins get stripped away.
But I think, yeah, they're probably not just sitting out
there.
Yes?
Two quick questions.
One quick maybe, if the other is a little longer.
I think you're choosing to know how to know that the small
subcutit is not as old as the large subcutit.
Oh, yeah.
I would also like to know a few things, that dark blue section,
synthesize it and look at it chemically in the lab.
OK, I'll answer the last question first.
Yes, we have made a whole bunch of those.
In fact, we've done all those expansion sections.
We have all those pieces of RNA in the lab.
I'll just talk about the oldest piece.
Yeah, the oldest piece, and then the next oldest.
And we've made them all.
Yes, and?
It's definitely.
Yes, we are doing that right now.
In fact, we're doing these dry down experiments,
where we're making peptides abiotically.
And we're putting those pieces of RNA in there.
And we're seeing if that will redirect the products
or change the products of the.
Well, enzymatic activity is sort of
in the eye of the beholder at this point.
So for example, we're saying, if we make peptides abiotically
by drying things down, we can do that easily.
We can make 20 mers.
And then we add this RNA.
And does it change?
Does it make them longer?
Does it change?
This itself can't work, would be a question I don't ask.
Or it can't work.
Yeah, I don't believe so.
We haven't seen.
Yeah, I don't believe it's autocad.
The guy who definitely is.
Yeah, OK, first question.
OK, now what was the second question?
First question.
What was the first question?
First question was, how do you know that the large is a puter?
Yes, OK.
So I didn't really show this.
But we have a lot of information
on the evolution of the interface
and on what happened when in the interface
and on what the stages of the two ribosomes
were when the interface formed.
And so we do have.
Well, number one, we know when the interface happened.
And then we have these dependencies in the interface,
the same ones I talked about you where we have the.
So we can say that the large is a puter.
Oh, how do we know what happened?
OK, we know what the interfacial RNA is.
We know because we know what the ribosome is.
We have our insertion fingerprints.
And we have the temporal evolution.
So we know that phase four is when the ribosome.
And so we know what happened to the large subunit.
The small ribosome isn't older, it wasn't floating around.
Yeah, OK.
I should say that in a different way.
I should say that the small subunit was less developed
and was smaller.
It could have been older.
Yes, absolutely it could have been older.
Yeah, yeah, that's a good question.
Right.
Right, yeah, no, thank you.
Right, it could have been way older.
We have no idea.
Right, good.
I mean, there's a number of reasons
why the large came before the small.
The first one was you have a cell folding RNA
that forms the site, the PTC site.
You have nothing like that in the small.
I beg to differ.
Hi.
I think we do have a cell phone.
Yes, we do.
We think we do.
Is that the one that you published with Petrov?
I don't know if we publish this one yet.
I don't think so.
You did have a small RNA.
The active site of the small RNA does not have a cell folding
RNA.
OK.
The same sense of the PTC.
When you show the PTC, that beautiful structure that
is invariant from T0, there's nothing like that
in the small thing.
OK, wait, let me, let me, let me somewhat.
Hi, this is my time.
OK, I'll talk to you later.
Well, yeah, he calls me once a week.
OK, so guys, with the large subunit, it really,
it grew, you can kind of think about it,
mushrooms growing out of mushrooms.
That's kind of how, especially the early evolution of the
life, with the small subunit, we think there was a little bit
of that.
But then something happened, which is you form a pseudonot.
The very core of the small subunit is a pseudonot.
And in order to form a pseudonot,
you have to strip a piece of RNA.
You have to melt the helix and bring that other strand
to make the pseudonot.
So we think the single-stranded binding functionality
was built very early into the small subunit.
So we can see that there was some fundamental difference.
We don't really know.
I mean, ancestrally, we think we kind of know what the large
subunit did.
We don't know what the small subunit did, except that it
had a single strand sitting out there to bind to something,
which is now the Shindel-Garnel sequence.
But that was built in very early.
And we can see that because the pseudonot requires that you
peel away a strand and expose a single strand.
And then the small subunit grew by this sort of what we
call a dendrite thing, where the large subunit is just
monolith.
And if you think about building a tunnel, I mean, think
about driving on a tunnel through the Cascade Mountains
or whatever.
If things move, the tunnel is going to break.
So that large subunit is just this rigid, nothing moves in
the large subunit.
The small subunit doesn't have a tunnel.
And it is a dendrite with all the, there's a lot of motions
going on in the small subunit.
So these two subunits have different functions.
They have different histories.
And they have totally different structures.
Anton has a talk.
He says the large subunit is from Venus, and the small
subunit is from Mars, or something like that.
Yeah, I can't remember.
OK, I got that backwards.
So maybe that question is vague, so you don't have
to answer it.
But from ribosomes that just put those things
without transduction to ribosomes that actually
encode and perform the transduction, how do you
kind of conceive that, is it like a grapple thing?
Or is it like something special?
OK, so one thing, we think everything was gradual and
incremental and conferred advantage at every step.
That's sort of our nothing.
In fact, we think everything, if you were there watching, you
could predict the next step, maybe, right?
That nothing, if we really knew the conditions, it would
be like watching rust grow on an iron, right?
Everything happened.
Nothing.
In fact, a lot of times when people are talking about the
origin of life, they want to talk about sort of esoteric or
exotic kinds of things.
We just think this was all just basic, simple chemistry
happening on a grand scale.
And that, OK, so OK, I'm not sure I fully sort of answered
your question.
So for coding, what we think is that, number one, coding
was gradual.
And initially, there was a mini helix, Paul Schemmel's
mini helix.
And whenever you have a mini helix, you have some kind of
unpaired nucleotides at the end.
I mean, that's sort of a necessity of a stem loop.
And a GNRA tetra loop, which are very common, have three
unpaired nucleotides.
Looks just like an anticodon.
And we think that initially, the origins of coding was a
piece of RNA that stuck as a cofactor and positioned things
in order to get better chemistry.
So that is the ultimate origins of coding.
That you had a stem loop, and there was one precipitous
