or the free energy framework.
Well, it's because I haven't gotten to the last bit.
So is the free energy framework, I insist on calling it,
unifying?
And I would argue that yes it is.
It is precisely because it doesn't make a lot of assumptions.
And most of the assumptions that it does make,
you can kind of squeeze other things into.
So here are the fundamental assumptions
as I see it of the free energy framework.
The brain has a model that includes a policy.
It has a set of accessible approximations
for the purposes of performing inference and action selection,
which we call Q.
And inference and action selection occurs
simply by minimizing either KL, QP,
or free energy or whatever you want to call it.
As a result of it, it's some incredibly general theory, right?
Anything can be incorporated, not anything.
No, anything. I'm going to stick with anything.
Just about any description of a behaving entity
can be squeezed into the free energy form
by judicious choice of your model that you're inverting,
PM, which is what I called it,
and your choice of approximations Q.
Anything.
And I spent a lot of time trying to think of things
that you couldn't include in the free energy principle,
and I actually kind of, initially, I sort of thought,
oh, well, you know, sampling-based inference
is a unique kind of inference.
No, you can totally squeeze that into,
what's a sample after all, right?
What can you do with a sample?
So you have 50 samples. What can you do with them?
Well, I can evaluate free energy.
I can get a point estimate.
I can take an average, and to the extent that my sampling scheme
is a good one, on average free energy will be going down
using a sampling-based inference scheme.
Okay, so that gets in there, too,
so we kind of need to get rid of the what is not.
How about non-Basian schemes?
Totally, you can get non-Basian schemes.
Yes, this is very Basian by definition.
There is a Basian brain.
We do take into account uncertainty,
but maybe not always.
How can you fit a non-Basian scheme into this?
Well, again, by judicious choice of Q.
Right?
Typically, we like Q because Q can track variance
and uncertainty about the properties of the world
that we care about,
why not pick a Q that doesn't?
Why not pick a Q that just says,
oh, zero entropy Qs,
that's all unallowed.
Now you're basically doing map estimation,
and you're not behaving in a Basian way.
I've squeezed it in there anyway.
That's why I call it a framework and not a theory.
It's a great mathematical language.
It's a language that I hope we would all adopt
because I understand it.
It makes sense to me,
but it provides very little guidance
regarding the things that I actually care about.
There's no guidance within the...
I could be wrong.
There's no guidance within this framework
for choosing the generative models
that the brain is using.
There seems to be very little guidance for choosing Q.
There is some.
I will not say there's none,
but there's very little guidance for how you're going to choose
the kinds of approximations that the brain is using.
There's, as far as I can tell,
zero guidance for the optimization algorithm.
And so here's a few that people like.
And more critically,
to me, there's almost no guidance
in terms of the relationship between your beliefs,
in this case your Qs,
and neural activity.
It's simply agnostic.
And that's what makes it a framework
and not a theory.
I just wanted to quote
two peoples who said very smart things
and phrased things much better than I could.
The SG is Sam Gershwin,
and his quote is
the predictive failures of the free energy...
he said principle, I say framework,
are typically attributed to poor choice
of your P's and your Q's.
If you don't mind your P's and Q's,
you know, yes, thank you.
I got one laugh out of that one.
Thank you, Eric.
If you don't mind your P's and Q's,
you will make bad predictions,
and if you do, you can make good ones.
But that's not a property of free energy.
It's a property of your choice of models
and inference algorithms.
And Ralph Hefner is RH in this scenario.
Basically, we're at the same thing,
using much better words than I would have chosen.
That...
is that.
Thank you.
APPLAUSE
Thank you, Jeff. Let's leave those up.
Shall we?
And Dimitri,
I'm going to give you a microphone so you can wander around the crowd
and look for questions.
And we have some online.
And maybe we'll take a few minutes
for Carl to address
some of the points.
Yeah. This is fine.
Thank you.
That we just heard.
Whichever you'd like.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Well, I thought you'd use all the good words.
Usually in the right order.
I like that P and Q thing.
I've never thought of that before.
So for those of you who don't know,
that comes from the old days when they used to print
and used to have different blocks of P's and Q's
and apprentices used to get them inverted.
I always thought it was prepositions
and questions and the like.
It's actually literally getting the P's and Q's right.
So to take your last,
I think you've identified
a number of really key issues
and unfortunately we're going to be
in largely agreement here.
So
yeah, framework, I think,
is perfectly fine.
I use the word principle because
it's essentially the free energy principle.
It's just a variational principle of least action.
Formally, mathematically, that is what it is.
But if you want to use that
to provide a framework
within which to house
or consider various
process theories, I think that would be
a very appropriate use of the word
of a framework.
But I've slipped in there the distinction between a process
theory which may or may not be
consistent with the free energy principle
and the framework
and the principle itself.
And I think you're absolutely right that
the framework does not prescribe
a particular process theory
and inversion scheme.
And more crucially, it doesn't provide
what we all really want to know,
which is the nature and the form, the physiology
of the implicit generative models
to which you apply the variational machinery
under the framework or the principle.
And I think there's
implicit in some of your
statements, which I agree with entirely,
was at least a heuristic
recourse to the complete class
theorem or theorems
that say for any
pair of observed behaviors
and loss function, there is a base
optimal solution. So I think you're
absolutely right, the free energy principle framework
cannot be wrong.
It cannot be falsified, of course,
in the sense of a variational principle
of least action. It doesn't have
the attribute of being falsifiable.
But any process theory can.
Because to be a process theory, you'd have to
write down the form
of the generative model, what
sorts of quantities it entails. Are you including
inference about fast
hidden states? Are you including learning
about slow model parameters? Are you including
structure learning? Are you including evolution?
