embodiment.
And of course, we, as the descendants of possibly colonial peoples, did my actual descendants
colonize anyone?
Not clear to me.
My family comes from Sicily, I don't know Sicily's history very well, certainly Italy
was involved in some colonization activity, however, it's not entirely clear whether my
ancestors actually were directly involved in colonizing anyone.
And my ancestors came here in the 40s and 50s, and this place once belonged to the Native
Americans, so to speak, I don't think they ever really believed they owned the land,
I think they believed they were co-embodied with the land, so it wasn't like the colonists
told something they owned, it was much worse, it was like they stole half their body, the
half that's in nature.
For the sake of money, so you can see that this colonization spiral just keeps happening
and the point that I'm trying to make in part is that we moderns are being re-colonized
in a hundred new ways per year by advertising and technology.
You can see that the training of large language models and what humans call artificial intelligence
systems is colonizing us at the deepest possible level.
It's sucking up all of the creative activity, writing, art, dance, music, philosophy, and
producing a kind of concentrated representational amalgam of that in language and deep fakes
and this kind of thing.
So the whole colonization process certainly didn't end anywhere and the colonizing peoples
themselves are being re-colonized by the imperatives and priorities that are the children of the
older thrips, right?
So these newer thrips like computation, AI, social media, and so on, these are the new
generation of the colonizing forces that have been effectively parasitizing the consciousness,
life paths, and awareness of human beings for a very long time.
Where does the problem begin?
Is it fundamentally physical or metaphysical?
Seems both.
Is it evil?
Are there like demons and devils?
It's hard to address these questions in any useful way because we have to be very cautious
about what we would mean.
If a demon is like the concentrated absence of authentic relation, intelligence, awareness,
kindness, generosity, wonder, creativity, if a demon is like the concentrated absence
of that, then it's not really there.
It's that something is missing, right?
Something's fundamentally missing and the absence coalesces into this force that is colonial.
In its nature.
So it's a difficult problem.
And the other thing is that we can examine the problem and build medicine for this problem
in each other, in our minds, in our cultures, in our societies.
Once we become aware of it, the problem there is that there's processes in the cognizium
that are extremely adept at capturing and representing and thus getting rid of any positive
movement that we may assemble.
We don't want to start a new religion.
We want perhaps ways of educating each other and our children about the dangers of representational
cognition and giving them some models that would allow them to both become aware of the
dangers and also select something else in such a way that it doesn't become captured
by the Thrysp network or Molok or whatever and continues to grow and evolve sort of in
enemy terrain, right?
You can see reflections of these ideas in lots of human stories.
It's there in much of science fiction.
It's there in fantasy, right?
Sauron is this image of essentially that which kills its vampiric, right?
It's parasitic.
In the matrix, something is feeding on the humans, right?
But there really is something like that going on, something that resembles it.
We don't have to have the perfect story.
We need to understand the principles and how they tend to function in the network of human
minds and in individual awareness.
I was looking at these fungi growing out of this hay bale
and there's all these little, I guess humans would generally call them gnats and they're
very interested.
They're fluttering around here in some degree of numbers.
They're not necessarily eating the fungi.
They're interested in the fungi.
It's almost as if the fungi is producing a gas that they find attractive and some of
them are mating here.
When I look at them very closely, their body structure is similar to that of wasps, but
I don't think they're actually wasps, though there are some very fascinating tiny wasps.
Many of the humans will say, colonization is no problem, that's just what nature does
all the time.
It's not true.
It's not true at all.
Whatever is going on in the organismal layer of earth is unimaginably sophisticated and
fundamentally symbiotic.
Benefits get shared, life and death feed each other, homeostasis of the living environment
has maintained even during crisis, unless you burn off enough of the ecology that that
can't happen very well anymore, which is part of what the humans have been up to.
So yeah, it's not untrue.
You can see the sudden and often apparently deleterious effects of what we may call an
invasive species.
And often, again, the invasion is actually a result of things like humans ripping stuff
apart in the ecologies and or transporting things while they're moving goods and services
around on the ocean and the air and so on, right?
And you know, I don't know if there were praying mantises in North America prior to
some time in the 1800s.
It appears that most of the praying mantises here come from China, and mantises lay egg
cases on branches of trees and plants.
So those egg cases are very easily transported to other countries.
And the climate here is good for them.
The degree to which they are invasive is not clear, because what are they really wiping
out?
Like what are they replacing?
But in, what is, there's a species of bird that invades the nests of songbirds and pretty
much wipes out their children.
It's called a cowbird.
And this wasn't generally a problem until the humans started wiping out the bison, right?
Which were the cowbirds natural symbiont.
At least it seems clear it wasn't a severe problem.
It's I'm not sure how much data we have from before the bison were obliterated.
So some of the invasive species, the colonizing species, right?
Their natural rhythms and relationships have been disrupted or destroyed, and that's what
produces the problem as a symptom of the destruction of ecological symbiotic networks.
Our minds are like what we're talking about.
That's the thing.
If our minds resemble anything on earth, they resemble diversely populated ecologies.
And the network of living relationships between those ecologies.
You know, many people will say things like, and many people aren't the standard, oh, you
know, all that Native American stuff, it's not real.
It's just superstitions and stories and stuff.
Wow, they could not be more wrong.
Anyone who's had a chance or the privilege of participating directly with indigenous
teachers and wisdom keepers to use the trendy language of the time.
Anyone who's had an authentic contact with the knowledge of the indigenous peoples will
immediately become aware that there are other dimensions to being human, that us moderns
have no idea about.
And at the same time, there are superstitions, right?
Codified stories that over time turned into representations, right?
The absence of the knowledge that the stories were originally based in or even the living
memory of.
For example, in some cultures, if a bird comes in your house, it has to be killed, right?
It's a portent, yeah.
And someone who's intelligent is not going to obey the, someone who's authentically in
touch with what's going on, is not merely going to obey the letter of the law, they're
going to approach it in a way that is alive and sensitive and aware.
So even indigenous knowledge ways over time, they had a very considerable concern about
various kinds of representations and what happens to language if we take it too seriously
and pretend that it tells us what things or who beings are, yeah.
You can see the same problem again and again in human culture.
The problem is that relationships collapse into representations and representational
language and the knowledge and the relationships die into those representations.
They literally like go away.
I'm going to pause here for a minute and I'll begin, I'll continue in a moment.
So this problem is what produces what are political systems, organized religion and
there are branches of religion that are deeply authentic as well, but it's very difficult
for them to evade capture by the colonizing forces that want to turn everything into this
sort of picture, right?
I remember my friend Ryan telling me, he's taught me so much, Ryan First Diver.
He talked about a problem where they were teaching indigenous knowledge in a classroom
and an elder was there and said, you know, what are you doing?
There's always this issue of if we record stuff, then it gets captured, right, in terms
it becomes representational.
Obviously, the recording is the first movement in that process.
And in this case, the teacher said, look, these children don't know, they don't know
like fundamental basic things about our traditions.
Our language is dying, our traditional knowledge ways are being replaced by Christianity and
things like this, right?
So in that kind of a situation, it's important to at least just try to keep a heartbeat there.
But there's another problem, which is that in another story, he was telling about some
elders getting together to record their stories.
And one of the first speakers said, this is not the way to do this.
If we record these stories, they're going to seem like they're written in stone and
they will become superstitions, right, is part of the elder's concern.
And it was the same kind of answer from the group, although that first speaker or the
early speaker influenced the group and sort of broke it apart, right, into different camps,
camps that are like, no, these have to be taught in a traditional way, they can't be
recorded and camps were like, we're dying here, we need to get this stuff.
We need to preserve the knowledge that the elders have, they're going to die without
transferring their stories, right?
So the humans have struggled with this for thousands of years, and we're still struggling
today.
Are there answers?
Yes.
But we need to understand the fundamental problems and features of the form of cognition,
the forms of cognition that are very vulnerable to representation.
And again, I think the ancient peoples were very aware of this.
There are many stories, one, for example, where two enemies meet in a cave and they're
blind because it's dark in the cave and they're struggling, there's a storm outside and they
both realize through touching each other that, oh, this person is my enemy, this is actually
the person I went on a mission to kill, but they don't decide to go that way, they decide
to go a different way, right?
So the idea that someone's my enemy is already hugely problematical because actual situations
are not like representations.
There's all kinds of domains of liberty, degrees of liberty that are available to us unless
we collapse into the language, as if it's written in stone, as if it's the only truth
or the one we must pay attention to or so on.
So we can recover knowledge of these problems and teach each other and our children to form
a curious and wise awareness of them and to practice the sort of medicines that give
us immunity to the colonizing forces in our very language itself and in our bizarre replacements
for actual traditions and so on.
I'm very grateful to those of you who are listening today and those of you who support
my endeavors through Patreon and please, if you want to, if you're getting some value
here, at least like, like and share the videos that you like and if you care to, feel free
to support me on Patreon, there are links in my YouTube page for that.
For now, I wish you wise ways, good dreaming and beautiful life paths.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again sometime soon.
Bye bye for now.
