Hey everybody, welcome.
I'm in the, I'm in the beautiful place, the living place.
Here's one of the Cooper's Hawks that I have known for a long time.
It's an amazing day here.
And part of what's amazing about it is that it's entirely ordinary.
Or at least one might say this.
I don't really have a plan today.
Just haven't made a video in a while and wanted to check in, say hello, maybe birdwalk
a little bit.
I'm really excited about the interviews I've done somewhat recently.
Ryan Firstdiver's long, unfinished interview about Blackfoot culture, his introduction
to it, and the first repatriation of a Blackfoot beaver bundle from the museum.
There's both video and just a straight audio interview of that.
And then the also unfinished interview with my friend Mark Kevin Carlton Davis on his
experiences in Africa.
And also with Molly Doma Somme.
And then the long interview on seeing and the non-ordinary with Holly Emmer, which
I'm really thrilled about all of these, these interviews.
And I hope to do more.
There's so many brilliant minds in my circle, my little circle.
And it's just an amazing opportunity when we can sit down together and learn and remember.
Things about our nature as humans that are easily sidelined in modernity.
There's so many beautiful life forms here.
I mean, just look at this stuff.
I often wonder what this place was like before it was populated by Western humans.
And certainly the Western humans get a bad rap for colonization and appropriation and
all these strange features of what is almost the opposite of something like a human culture.
But it's important to remember that they too were captured rather than being necessarily
captured by another people, another group of humans.
They were captured by something that is very difficult to point at.
And all of our human cultures with the exception of some indigenous cultures are similarly enslaved.
There doesn't have to be, though it's very concrete when there is, but there doesn't
have to be an invader, a human group that invades and colonizes and enslaves.
For us humans, our minds represent an environment.
Much like the living environment of Earth in which you have animals and plants and trees
and microbes and insects and fungi and so on.
But that environment is not visible to us in the same way that the living environment
is, but it's just as profuse as this.
There are all kinds of forms of life or there are all kinds of a peculiar mode of beings
that live and reproduce and execute functions in the environment of human minds.
And it turns out that we are extremely vulnerable to specific forms of these processes that
I call thrips.
So the human cognizium is the name for the environment that is the network of human minds.
And it has a wide array of features that we don't have language for, but that nonetheless
exist in a sense while we exist.
And the network of minds is connected by physical transports and also non-physical transports.
For example, it's my perspective that the experience we call dreaming is an experience
of connection with the cognizium, not just the human one.
And it repairs and reorganizes features of the cognizium both at the scale of all humans,
at the scale of the people we interact with, at the scale of the people we know, at the
scale of the people we love, and so on.
The dreaming mind is trying to actually understand the problem of the colonization of waking
consciousness by what I refer to as thrips.
In recent talks, for example, by Max Tegmark with Lex Friedman, Max talks about a problem
that is presently being referred to as molok, which is a way of talking about the sort of
negatively demonic problem with human minds, cultures, and civilizations being captured
by something that we don't really know how to refer to.
It certainly seems, in a sense, metaphysically evil, but it's not necessary to include the
metaphysics to see the damage, right?
We could think about it in very effective ways that were primarily psychological if
we had the models that would help us to understand more clearly the nature and activities of
the human cognizium, the mimula, which is the connection, the transports that connect
human minds in the cognizium and beyond, and thrips, which are the word, that's the word
that I coined to indicate these deleterious processes that hitchhike on human cognition
and are extremely oriented to dominate terrain, to dominate the transports, to become very
contagious and to produce something that resembles progeny, new forms of similar thrips.
Ethics and religion on earth are thoroughly infested with thrips, and they are weaponized
against the possibility of our human nature, intelligence, potential, and so forth.
So this is a model, and the human cognizium floats on all the other cognizia of earth,
which nourish it and create this incredible field of opportunity in consciousness and
relation, in memory, in creativity, in discovery, in wonder, in joy.
So it's a nested network where the different insect cognizia, the cognizia of the bees,
the wasps, the ants, the trees, the herbs, the fungi, the land animals, the raccoons,
skunk, badger, bear, to name a few, the water animals, whales, coral, plankton, octopi,
squids, dolphins, the insects, again, the preying mantises, spiders, microbes, all of the vast
varieties of microbial organisms in their swarming trillions.
The creatures of the air, the crow and bluejay and hawk and owl and dove and goose and duck,
all of these beings, right, they are together as one family, and they are doing something
that the humans generally rarely approach the idea of.
They are making the possibilities of consciousness and awareness locally for earth.
Of course, the humans right on top of this, completely unaware of it, and most of what
we do as a species rips those cognizia to shreds, right, poisons them, destroys them,
build cities, and so on.
But what we don't realize is that that same process in which it appears that bad humans
are colonizing nature, what's actually going on is that the humans themselves are colonized.
The human cognizium, something is riding on that, and it captures it in various ways.
And it, I mean, it's so difficult to find words to explain these situations, but effectively
one of the effects of the colonization of human minds by these thrips, which are really,
what are they?
They are actual beings, tough to say.
The simplest way to think of them is as processes that are attracted to certain modes of thought
behavior activity, right?
So you can see in human culture, for example, we've lost our privacy, the ability to have
private experiences and conversations with each other that never become public or to
have telephone calls and so on.
We've lost our privacy due to two principles.
The first is advertising, which you can see is like throwing a net to capture human attention,
right?
This is a very thrisplike feature of the colonizing aspect of our cognizium.
And then the other reason that we've lost privacy, and privacy is absolutely essential
to being human, is due to security, right?
Which has sort of two main branches, law enforcement and the military.
Most of our social structures are not really human.
They're the symptoms of specific networks of thrips that have colonized us in general.
And just to go back to the beginning here, you can see that before the Europeans went
on colonizing rampages around the globe, they themselves were intrinsically internally colonized
by ideas.
And really, thrips are an idea in both senses, right?
Like you have the idea of thrips, but you also have the result of the colonization of
humans by thrips in our language and religion, in the foundations of our representational
cognition.
So it's important to see that before, in one sense, in one way of thinking for certain
purposes, before the European colonizers laid waste to indigenous cultures around the world,
they themselves were first victimized in a very similar way, right?
I see this in all kinds of human problems and life stories and the stories of civilizations,
right?
So it is as if there's a kind of an evil force that is colonizing the humans cognitively.
And it seems to be a result of the urge to make representations of things.
There are very few creatures in nature that make representations.
None of them make abstract representations.
That's our specialty.
So certainly you can find a nest of wasps, or a beehive, or an anthill, or a tree in
which the blue herons gather in the correct season to reproduce and raise their children.
They make nests, right?
And you can think, oh, that's a representation, not in the same sense, because it's not abstract.
When it doesn't replace relationships, these features embody them, right?
They embody relationships.
And what the humans are mostly embodying is the absence of relationships.
And that's what our capacity, that's the danger that our capacity for representational cognition
introduces into the long sort of archeological record of the development of human consciousness,
right?
We could call it the evolution of human consciousness, even though in many cases, in many senses,
not all of them, it's actually the opposite of evolution.
We are, our minds are dying into abstraction.
And you can see this process happening in the sort of historical record of the development
of human consciousness as organized religions begin to show up on the scene, produce books,
weaponize those stories, right?
You either do exactly what we say here, or you'll be tortured forever.
Only we know the way to enlightenment, the divine, this kind of thing.
Most of those religions that are like that are actually just thrisp networks, right?
It's the absence of anything resembling insight, intelligence, awareness, consciousness, masquerading
as the only way to get there, right?
And making threats, right?
Not only do only we know the door to the sky and the divine beings, but we are telling
you that you will be destroyed forever if you don't sign on the dotted line, right?
Except the tenets of the thris-based religion.
This problem of absences turns out to be crucially important to how thrisps propagate in the cognisium
and continue to produce terrifying results.
It's as if in representational cognition, in general, there's a vulnerability in the domain
of abstraction, right, to depart an actual array of relational opportunities simply by
making representations of them, photographs, clinical analyses, math.
Now I'm not trying to denigrate ways of knowing.
I'm only trying to say that some of the ways of knowing carry with them this potential to
depart from insight, relationship, learning, curiosity, and growth into the production
of tokens, right?
And the most obvious tokens that replace those relationships and thereafter call to us because
they stand in that place of the absence of what they point at, right?
You can see this in any version of an insane religion.
I'll just pick one at random here.
The most obvious one around here is sort of damnation, theology, evangelical Christianity,
particularly how that network of vicious thrisps functions on television, right?
Television itself is already the absence of a relationship dancing in awareness as if
it is a relationship, right?
And then later, you know, over time, you get weirder problems like our social networks
and so on, yeah, let's see what's going on here for a moment.
That bird is telling me there are hawks nearby, and that's almost always true here.
So we have this problem and we don't have any much medicine for it because nobody is
teaching us these things.
I learned these things from long research and also the cooperation of another cognisium,
right?
A non-human cognisium.
And we have no immunity to this.
Things are incredibly vulnerable to this problem and it's become very serious over perhaps
the past 5000 years, more seriously the past two, hyper-seriously the past 500 years.
And it's just absolutely crystallizing in the moment that we live in today and over
the past 50 years with the rise of the Internet, which is almost pure representation, and technologies
such as those we are now about to face the impending consequences of that we are calling
large language models and artificial intelligence.
These are incredibly dangerous technologies that alter not just what it means to be human
but what memory is, which is one of the most foundational assets that must be protected
for humans to have the possibility of being intelligent, especially together.
So long before the colonizers went apeshit crazy on nightmare massacres of indigenous
populations, inside themselves this process was already occurring and had been occurring
for a long time, right?
They were colonized interiorly and extrinsically.
You can see that of all the representations that humans make, money is probably the most
dangerous in lots of different ways, right?
If you have money, you don't need relationships.
You can buy the opportunity to relate in a way that benefits just you mostly with cash.
So you can see that money is like the representation of the absence of relationships, and it's
incredibly powerful, yeah.
It replaces the principle of relation and value, the principles of relation and value,
with value itself, right, like value capital V, with tokens, yeah.
And that process drives a whole vast forest of dangerous other processes.
It's almost like, of course we've heard the trope, you know, money is the root of all
evil, but in a very real way, money is the motivating cause of vast arrays of human colonization,
harm, cruelty, and also the opposite, right?
Like it's so prevalent that it blocks the possibility of many virtues, while breeding
sort of ugliness and wickedness in a way, it at the same time ensures there's not enough
assets for the good stuff to flower and have a chance, you know, to come into inaction,
