I knew that the, I had a deep faith that there was some way to run electricity through a wire
in a particular environment that would light up. Like the elements were enough that I didn't
know what the right answer was, but I felt that there was one enough. I was going to keep working
at it. And of course, as a lot of persons might have been in other ways, innovation does,
innovation that requires failing a lot requires that kind of faith to keep working at.
And we need to innovate not just at building a piece of tech, but an entire techno sphere
and social sphere compatible with the biosphere and compatible with human nature.
It's a deep set of things to innovate on and we can, but it does require that commitment,
which also requires that kind of face commitment relationship.
Right. So I think it was really refreshing to spend some time on where you spend your hope,
where you think about hope, because these catastrophes and dystopias are,
it's really bleak when you're staring into that abyss. And so I've gotten my notes here,
the tech inspires you, human nature inspires you and also your relationship to hope
or faith itself. So basically, starting with the tech, the example of surveillance tech,
which allows you to solve for multi-polar traps by having a neutral adjudicator of who's breaking
the laws and no more plausible deniability of people who are defecting, AI enabling tutoring,
enabling education to be like fractal and create more education, which creates more
anti-fragility and better informed citizens, which we could use to plug into higher resolution
democracy. These are all examples of tech that could be used for the public good,
but we have this economic problem where we don't have the incentives to solve it.
And we see the same sort of thing in the human nature area of this. So you're inspired by actual
human nature because we can upregulate human nature to go from being dumb and mean to being
smart and more polite. And I think that you said the Jewish communities and Buddhist communities
are maybe an example of that. If lead and gasoline or Facebook can regulate us down,
what can upregulate us in terms of our ability to solve those problems? And then lastly, hope
and faith itself. It's easy to say it can't be done, but you're not considering the unknown
unknowns. If you study your ass off and commit yourself to solving these problems, then that's
the first step in hope or faith itself. So I don't know. To me, it's just nice to hear
someone who's thought as much about this has hope in all of those places because I think
that the seeds of our next episode are going to be exploring how do we combine the opportunities
in technology with actual incentives to solve public goods problems, commons problems,
multipolar traps, and maybe attempt to start addressing the meta crisis is I think where
we want to take this series of podcasts that we're doing together.
I love the way you recap things. It's really fun and yes, and I would only add one more thing to
this is your community knows a lot about red teaming because you're doing crypto security stuff
and so you'll build a thing and then redeem it. In the age old dialogue between optimism and
pessimism, I think about a commitment to optimism that's attached to solutions and the unknown
unknowns with pessimism red teaming specific propositions and an internal kind of autodidactic
process as well as a group process, an intergroup process that should happen. So I want to see
people commit to bring solutions about even though they don't know how. It was a famous thing with
Gandhi when he first went to South Africa and saw the kind of slavery and racial issue there and
then when he went to India again that he's like, this is unacceptable. I'm going to solve it and
his friends are like how he goes, I don't know, but I'm committing to solve it before I know how.
And then I'm going to just sit here and think and meditate and write and come up with ideas until
I know what to do, but I'm not going to do shit other than think about what to do because I've
already committed. What does it mean to commit to something you don't yet know how to do, right?
So that's a kind of optimism that says there's something in the unknown unknowns
that they can solve this and I have to solve it because I feel morally obligated to solve this,
like it's not okay with my being to not be part of the solution to this thing that I see.
And I'll die on this hill if I have to, right? If I'm working towards
and whether my being is calling me to protect the Amazon or factory farms or coordination itself,
whatever it is, I'm like, fuck, I have to do that harmically.
Being committed, even though you don't know how, which means you will keep figuring out how and
when it fails, you'll find another way rather than just give up, is both what's most likely to make
you succeed and where you can be most at peace if you fail and die, right? In the process because
you're like, I was given, if I'm going to fail, I want to do it this way, right? I want to have been
aligned in this way in the process. But I don't want to fail stupidly. I don't want to fail from
should I could have figured out. So I want to red team my own ideas. And that's a kind of pessimism,
but it's a pessimism in service of effective optimism. My optimism says I'm fucking committed
to find a solution. My pessimism said, I bet that solution has a problem. Not to make me give up,
but to say, oh, you're right, that one does have a problem rather than wait till it just fails in
the world after a lot of money and a lot of years. How about let me just red team it really hard
right now. Let me ask all my smart friends what's wrong with it. Then when they give me what's wrong
with it, I'm not going to give up. I'm going to be like, all right, those are new constraints to a
design problem. Let me keep working on a new design. Then I try to get and eventually you get
something that's hard enough. You're like, this is not perfect, but this is adequate to move the
thing forward. There's a relationship between these two where the optimism is only
realizable because it's hardened by pessimism and pessimism is in service to the optimism.
And this also reconciles a parts conflict in ourselves where those two parts are actually
in service to each other. It's almost like using adversarial thinking in order to get to
a world in which these things are not a problem anymore to general optimism and pessimism of the
red team red teaming specific solutions. And in general, what I'd like to say is for anyone in the
community working on a crypto solution, you're like, okay, this will be good because it will
decentralize this thing that is currently centralized and corrupt. Ask all your friends to
red team where the externalities will be and why it's a bad idea. Oh, fuck, this is centralized
because it's really important to be centralized for these reasons, decentralizing it leads to these
coordination failures or whatever it is or being so much slower that another centralized one that's
worst takes over or whatever it is. Don't be afraid to hear that like speed up the rate at which you
hear why your good idea is a bad idea, because you think it's a good idea because there's something
that it's addressing that's really fucking important. Awesome. Because it's important,
you want to hear where it's going to fail or where it would cause problems somewhere else that you
really don't want to cause problems somewhere else so that you can internalize that into a more
robust and more inclusive design. So I don't want people just red teaming from a cryptography
perspective. I want people teaming from a, is this actually a good idea? And is this causing
problems somewhere else perspective? And then to not give up, but to design better.
So now that we've stuck the landing, maybe we can do a quick recap of the broader series that
we're going to do together. So this was episode one, which is what is the Metacrisis? The next
episode, we're going to talk about considerations of governance of systems that can solve the
Metacrisis. And then we're going to red team some web three proposed solutions to address the
Metacrisis in the remaining episodes for aiming between two and four episodes between this series.
Did I get that mostly right? Yep. Let's just not call it solve the Metacrisis.
That's right. A web three can help address the Metacrisis, right?
One thing I would offer, we were talking about this earlier is
it becomes clear pretty quickly that economy and governance, economics and governance are
fused. You can't separate them because governance issues mostly have to do with allocation of
resources and allocation of resource issues end up requiring things like law and adjudication of
how that stuff works. So you end up getting into the topic of what's usually called political
economy, right? The political economy is the idea of how does an economic and governance system
work together with an infrastructure and culture? I would really like to encourage people in the
web three space who are coming from being technologists and builders to study political
economy more because really fucking smart people put a lot of time into a lot of nuanced stuff
that you don't want to try to reinvent the wheel and realize failures on.
We want to see how having new technological capacities makes new things possible, but we
want to understand the design constraints that have come about so far from very, very harder
and hard one processes. So you and I were mentioning Richard Haas, the president of
council forum relations example of someone thinking about international relations and
political economy and how the current world system works in a very nuanced, detailed way
that I would love if people like him were being studied, that work was being studied by crypto
people more. And he had a famous paper where he said, talks about the difference between
problems and predicaments and that a problem admits a complete solution, a predicament
requires ongoing management. A predicament could also be called a wicked problem,
but anytime you have different interests that are competing with each other or you have trade-offs
where those who care about one side will keep pushing for those on a solution to move more in
that direction, then you don't end up getting a perfect solution. You get an ongoing management
issue. And so the metacrisis does not admit a solution. It admits hopefully, progressively,
more competent partial solutions and management and addressing. And for people who are used to
thinking about tech where you can define the problem in a fairly narrow way and admit a full
solution, this piece of code compiles and does this thing. That's mostly not how humans and
cultural and organic systems work. So we want to get out of solutions and into
managing ongoing complexity maturely, responsibly, effectively.
Beautiful. I think that's a tasty teaser for the episode that we're going to do next
about political theory, what there is to learn from it, and governance that can solve the
metacrisis. Daniel, thank you for taking the time to record this episode with us. I really,
deeply, genuinely believe that there's a ton of upside for political thinkers like you, systemic
risk thinkers like you, to combine with people in the Web 3 and Dow community to design economies
that favor the commons and help solve multipolar traps. And I hope that I hope that I was putting
this out there into the universe creates that attractor for people who want to solve that problem
together. Like you said, more ears, more eyeballs equals more people thinking about this equals more
hope for me. So I really appreciate you setting this up at the time. Yeah, I do too. And I know a
lot of people I think are really brilliant thinkers in the kind of Web 3 Dow decentralized
governance space, some who you should have on your show that know a heap more about this space
specifically than I do. Yeah, Matan Fields would be good. I don't know if you had Drake
training offers on Jordan Hall. There are some of the folks at Hall of Chain. I think they're all
really good thinkers like Arthur Brock and Farinanda. But of the people who I have spoken with,
you are so clearly earnestly motivated to really solve collective action problems and coordination
problems and have figured out how to be pretty central to an ecosystem of people really trying
to do that. That's why I wanted to come do this dialogue series with you because obviously a lot
of people can say they're trying to do that while really trying to drive the bubble on a speculative
token. And I am inspired by what can happen because the people who understand political economy well
are mostly not trying to really innovate fundamentally new models. Some are but it
seems like, okay, at best we can do tiny incremental advancement. And I know the Web 3 space is
might be almost the only space, one of the only spaces really thinking about can we do fundamental
ground up redesign. So I wanted to understand everything that's happened before and think
about redesign. And I really like where your community is positioned. So I'm happy to be here
talking with you. Yeah. Well, GitQuin's mission is to build and fund the public good. And that is a
multipolar trap in global coordination failure. So it's at the heart of what we're trying to do.
And I think that we're committed to solving the problem, but we haven't figured out exactly how.
So I can relate to you in that way. Yeah. So I think that's all there is to say. Thanks again
for being on the show, Daniel. Wonderful talking to you, my friends.
