nuclear war that kills everything right away. You get increasing catastrophes. So COVID sucked
worse than a lot of things before it. And now the Ukraine-Russia war sucks worse than the wars we've
had before. And the level of polarization in the US sucks worse, but it's not full-blown
civil war. It's not full-blown World War yet, but it's kind of like moving in that direction.
So then with each catastrophe comes control mechanisms to try to deal with it that centralize
power. Those centralized powers either start or get corrupt or at least get captured by
corruption at a certain point, because that's the way it happens. So let's say the first cyber
attack on infrastructure that really fuck stuff up happens, or the first drone attack on infrastructure
really fuck stuff up happens, then we justify a bunch of surveillance and it won't be the good
type of surveillance. It'll be the bad type of surveillance. And already we can see that China
has learned from the US model and other places. And it's like, no, if you just let all the tech
be developed by the private sector, the private sector gets so fucking powerful when you have
trillion-dollar corporations with exponential tech, they're stronger than the nation-state.
The nation-state can't bind them. You stop having rule of law and those new corporations basically
become a feudalism that kills the nation-state. So we actually have to keep all of our corporations
in check. And by the way, since we know how powerful exponential tech is because we're
developing it, you also need sesame credit and an IoT surveillance system. They're not stupid.
They're actually taking the problems of decentralized catastrophe weapons and the
decentralized catastrophic capacity to the nation-state of major corporations seriously.
But they're doing it in a way that we would consider a level of centralized control that
we're not okay with as far as civil liberties go. So what happens right now is you get a little bit
more catastrophe. And then the world says, oh my God, this is so bad, we have to deal with it. And
the response involves something strong enough to deal with it that involves granting more authority
to some agencies. We've already seen this. Like every time you have a 9-11, then you get a
Homeland Security Act and a Patriot Act that creates less oversight and more corruption of
government because they can't share everything because it's national security secrets and the
Constitution can be suspended for some period of time under FEMA or whatever it is. So you have
this play where each catastrophe motivates us to want a solution enough to accept a dystopic one.
And then the dystopia is not a global control system. So now you just have multiple control
systems competing in a more fierce arms race driving other types of catastrophes. So the
upper left quadrant there is catastrophes and dystopia is driving each other. And so one of
the reasons I like to frame this together is, and the reason I like the Metacrisis frame,
and this is not to dissuade anyone from doing anything. It's actually,
at first, that's what it feels like. It's like, fuck, this is too hard to do anything. But that's
just whenever the complexity of the problem assessment goes up and you're not used to it
and your thinking isn't there, of course, you're not going to be able to come up with solutions
at that level of complexity. But once you spend a while and get used to it and get
comfortable with it, then you can start thinking about solutions at the right order of complexity.
You just have to stick with it for a bit. It's quite easy if I take an individual catastrophe
to solve for it in a way that makes another catastrophe. So for instance, can I feed hungry
people in an area where you've been starving with more conventional agriculture with NPK
fertilizer that increases the nitrogen effluent and causes more dead zones and oceans faster?
Yeah, of course. Can I do certain types of geoengineering for climate change that might
cause other really catastrophic effects on the environment? Totally. So can I try to
solve climate change by some global tax on carbon that actually leads to World War III?
Because if all of a sudden GDP goes down rapidly, now each country's need for more stuff means they
have to take it from each other as opposed to a very positive sum situation. So if you're focused
on climate change and you're not focused on how to prevent World War III and economic
relationships, you're going to be a problem. And so you can drive, you can solve one catastrophe
and make other catastrophes more likely, or you can solve catastrophe as a whole and make
dystopias more likely. I also have some friends working on anti-authoritarian tech, how to prevent
the dystopias, and they're making catastrophes more likely. And so what I want is for somebody to be
anyone who's thinking about this to be able to think about all of them and say, how do I
solve for this catastrophe while not driving other ones or dystopias? How do I make sure
that solving for this catastrophe means being able to have some kind of visibility into the
dynamics that would cause it and some type of control mechanisms or enforcement? How do I make
sure that that one doesn't externalize harm to other areas, which means I have to understand the
connected map enough? And how do I make sure that that enforcement mechanism has enough checks and
balances on itself that it isn't corrupt and can't be captured by corruption? And that's just,
okay, now I've got the design constraints to be able to think through it. And of course,
the first lots of ideas will be wrong. But that's the important thing is to hold that there are
dialectics of constraints, where you can easily make something better and make something else
worse. And that is one of the drivers of the metacrisis. One of the underlying drivers of the
metacrisis is that we define problems too narrowly. And then we solve that problem and our solution
drives other problems. And so if you want to stop making some metacrisis worse, you have to make
sure that whatever you're solving isn't making other shit worse, right? Right. Yeah. So it sounds
like basically any attempt to solve for a catastrophe or a dystopia can end up having an
unintended consequence in which you're trying to solve catastrophes, you create more dystopias,
you're trying to solve for dystopias, you create more catastrophes. And what we're looking for is
a tradeoff space in which we're not kicking the can further down the road in order to
make that happen. Is that right? And if so, how do we do it?
I can say that there's a lot we can discuss on how to do it that we will do over this series of
conversations. And nobody myself included knows the whole of that story yet. Like there's a lot
that we have to discover. And that's why a podcast like this makes sense is to
help the parts that we do know to be more widely shared so that we have a higher starting point.
So more people's collective intelligence can be focused on solving parts we don't know yet.
Right. Yeah. So I think we're kind of trying to create a shelling point for more people to be
learning about catastrophes and dystopias. Or I think you want to still be that this is maybe
we're creating a false attractor or an attractor towards people solving that problem. And hopefully
that gets more people thinking on on these problems, which increases the likelihood that
we can solve them. I don't want it to be a false attractor. I want it to be a real attractor.
So like for me, if I see climate change, like climate change
for people who have spent some time thinking about it and studying and caring about it,
see the extinction rebellion movement and groups like that being like, well,
this is so fucking serious, we need to like get all hands on deck and focus on this.
And they realize there's a lot of force against solving it. And it's a tricky thing.
For me, looking at all the other connected issues, I think it's even harder.
You were just watching some of the conversations Nate Hagens and I had together. And if
yeah, great stuff. Maybe that can go in the show notes, but like his work really highlights
that global GDP and global energy use are almost perfectly correlated. They're 99%
where meaning increases in efficiency of tech that can make more dollars per joule
only change the correlation by 1%, which is not enough to even keep up with the increased
demand. So we can pretty much consider them tightly coupled. If GDP and energy use
are tightly coupled and GDP has to go on an exponential curve just to keep up with interest,
which compounds alone death or anything else. That means an exponential demand for energy.
And we're already at a diminishing return on hydrocarbons, meaning it takes more barrels of
oil to get new barrels of oil than it used to be. And that's why we've went to fracking and
tar sands and offshore oil drilling and like, not just the easy stuff is because we've already
tapped a lot of the easy stuff. And so now we're going into the hard stuff and you get
diminishing returns. Well, if you're getting diminishing returns on energy density and energy
investment, at the same time, you're in the verticalizing part of an exponential curve on
GDP and this energy demand, you got a problem that's eminent. And the answer of renewables,
something like from 2019 to 2021, the increase in demand of energy is more than all renewables
ever built. So like, yes, we're doing more renewables, but the demand is going up on an
exponential curve. And the renewables, a lot of fucking energy, right? Like,
it takes a lot of coal and oil to make a solar panel and to make the batteries to back it up. So
if it takes 10 years for the solar panel running to just break even on the oil it took to put into
it, then to try to meet all of the energy needs plus make all that new stuff. It's like, whoa,
this is really tight. Okay, so we understand that it's not just that dollars and energy are coupled,
but pretty tightly dollars and energy from hydrocarbons are coupled because the other solution
just not really totally convergent yet. Well, climate change sounds, it makes sense why it's
so hard because it's not just going up against the oil industry, it's going up against the market
itself, right? Because if you make energy more expensive, you make every fucking industry more
expensive because there's an industry that doesn't need energy. If you make energy, it's real cost,
meaning the cost to pull the CO2 out of the atmosphere and to clean up the oil spills and
to make renewable hydrocarbons, then energies goes up to a million dollars a barrel or whatever
the fuck it is and the entire market collapse, no market works. So you're like, all right,
so we're trying to solve climate change is like going against the entire global economy. It makes
sense why it's so goddamn hard, right? Right. Just one issue, right? That is not the fucking AI
issue or the biotech issue or the, and so then you're, so for me, when I look at each of those
issues and I see how hard they are and I see them as individual issues, if I think of them all as
separate, it's impossible. Like, there's just no way that we can do what it takes. Yeah. A thousand of
them. Death of a thousand cuts. Yeah. When I see that all of those issues are instantiations of a
couple of deep patterns, like the pattern of perverse incentive, the pattern of incentivizing
externality, the pattern of multipolar trap. And like, there's really only a few of those patterns
that account for all of it. That actually moves it from feeling impossible to really, really hard,
but tracking. It's like those few deep coordination things we have to address. And they do require
changing human motives. So that's both external incentive and, you know, judicial systems,
but it's also human values and culture. And it's also the fact that mediates them. So there's like,
there's tech infrastructure stuff we have to do. There's like legal, economic, social stuff we have
to do. And there's totally like cultural value system stuff we have to do. And we have to do some
stuff in each of those three that intersects each other and leads to virtuous cycles in time.
Right. But when I get to see the entirety of the metacrisis, it actually starts to move from
feeling impossible to tractable, really hard to tractable, because like, oh, there are patterns
across all of this. And it's impossible at the level of all the symptoms, but at the level of
underlying drivers, we can at least start to wrap our heads around it.
Immutable X is the Layer 2 platform for crypto gaming. Immutable offers massive scalability with
up to 9,000 transactions per second and instant transaction confirmation. No more gas fees,
no more waiting around for your transaction to clear. Immutable's zero knowledge roll-up
finally unlocks the world of crypto gaming. Immutable X is the only gas-free NFT minting
platform with over 26 million NFTs minted all with zero gas fees. With the power of
Immutable, gaming developers don't also need to become smart contract developers,
they just need to plug into Immutable's API and instantly start unlocking the full potential
of crypto assets inside of games. This is why world-class companies and projects have decided
to deploy on Immutable X, like GameStop, Ember Sword, Planet Quest, Illuvium, TikTok, and many
more behind the scenes. So start building your game on Immutable X today at immutable.com.
Coinshift is a leading treasury management and infrastructure platform for dows and crypto
businesses who need to manage their treasury operations. Every crypto organization manages
their treasury, and Coinshift offers a simple, flexible, and efficient multi-chain treasury
management platform built on top of the extremely secure Gnosisafe. With Coinshift,
your organization can go from primitive single-chain treasuries to expressive,
flexible, multi-change features such as global user management, global contracts,
proposal management, and many other features that can be shared across an entire organization.
Coinshift layers on powerful treasury management tools on top of the proven security of Gnosisafe,
allowing users to save time and reduce operational burdens and gas costs.
Coinshift even has data tools like account reporting across the seven chains on which it
operates. Used by industry powerhouses such as Uniswap Grants, Balancer, Consensus, and Misari,
Coinshift is speeding up the coordination and efficiency of the organizations that use it.
In DeFi, you have to keep up with the frontier, and Coinshift makes that easy. So sign up at
Coinshift.xyz slash bankless. And I think that, you know, one of the things I wanted to make sure
that we got to in this conversation is where your hope comes from, Daniel, because I don't want
listeners to leave this episode thinking, oh, we're all fucked. And I don't think that that's
what you're saying. From the Nate Hagen's podcast, when I listened to that, you all talked about a
lot of bend not break. So basically, what is the aperture through which the humanity could steer
itself through the metacrisis in which these systems bend, but they don't break? The systemic
risk is not realized in systemic downside for humanity. And I want to ask you where your
hope comes from, Daniel. And what is the hope for solving the metacrisis and the future of
humanity on this planet? And how do I look at my kid in the eye and have hope that they're going to
have a non dystopic and non catastrophic life? Let me start with like three or four or five
of quick examples that will be so high level, they might seem hand wavy, but they're real
of specific ways that the tech that is oriented to breaking stuff and either catastrophes or
dystopias currently could also be repurposed to build a third attractor. And I want to just give
a couple of these examples because it is not currently the case that the financial incentive
or the political motive and regulation or whatever or the market incentive is such
that the tech is being built for these purposes. It's totally oriented to the two attractors we
have, but it could be like the tech is definitely new capacities and it could be oriented towards
things that are really in the right direction. So I want to give a couple of these examples
and there's way more like we can pretty much show for each example of technology
how it could be restructured in both the design of the tech and the regulation around it and etc
that it oriented third attractor. Then I want to go to the deeper part about what about human
nature is inspiring for me and then the even deeper part of like relationship to the topic
of hope or faith itself. So tech, there's a group called Planet Labs, a company publicly traded
company, the largest private satellite company, satellite imaging company in the world.
Team over there are friends and we've been in conversation recently because they image the
entire surface of the earth every day. And so their customers are only the very, very large
government and corporations that have the kind of machine learning capability to process 30
terabytes of compressed information into something. But as they get the machine learning capability
to process that and deliver a more usable product to more people and they're getting more satellites
with more sensors, the real time ability to see everything on the surface of the earth
is emerging in a way that is not actually controlled by any government there because of
laws regarding being an international airspace. They actually can show in detail what's in the
military bases of US, China, Russia, everywhere that's happened like it's a wild look. But that
also means they can show where the fishing boats are that shouldn't be and where they came from.
They can show where the logging is happening. They can show where the mining dams are breaking and
the toxic affluent is going out and the and be able to rewind where the affluent and the dead
zones in the ocean are. That's a level of forced global transparency that makes international
agreement much more possible because it makes the transparency to track the agreement possible where
then enforcement mechanisms have a chance. That's a humongously promising thing like that's a big
deal to be able to say like, Oh, actually, you have no plausible deniability on who did that
pollution or who did that illegal fishing like we know exactly where the fuck they came from.
