What's up, coordination? How you doing? Today's episode is with Daniel Schmackenberger, who
is a systems thinker with a deep breath of experience in game theory, political history,
economics, social sciences. And I am just so elated to be bringing this, bringing you this
episode. Daniel Schmackenberger is someone I discovered several years ago on the Future
Thinkers podcast where he was discovering and discussing systemic risks to humanity. So beyond
just climate change, but what he calls the metacrisis, which is, well, you're going to have to
listen to the episode to hear what the metacrisis is. Basically, we're looking for the systemic
game theoretic underpinnings behind the metacrisis and all of the coordination failures worldwide.
Daniel is a founding member of the Consilience Project, whose aim at improving public sense
making and dialogue. And you just hear it in his voice when he's talking. He's a deep understanding
articulate-ness and lucidity in which he's talking about systemic risk. And that includes
climate change, AI risks, biodiversity loss, all these sorts of things that are happening
as humanity is running into its planetary boundaries on planet Earth. And I think that this
is probably one of the most important episodes that we've done because Daniel has thought so
much about what he sees as the metacrisis and our ability to solve the metacrisis by creating a
third attractor towards a better world. So this episode is going to be the first part of a
three-part series in which we're going to be discussing what is the metacrisis and what would
a third attractor look like for solving it. The second episode, we're going to talk about criteria
for solving the metacrisis. And the third episode, we're actually going to talk about
Web3, DAOs, what we've seen with the history of Bitcoin, Ethereum, ICOs, DeFi, NFT, DAOs.
We have a global coordination substrate in order to solve coordination failures. And so we're
bringing the Web3 community's technology knowledge, computer science knowledge, and combining that
with game theoretic design and political history knowledge from Daniel Schmockenberger. And we're
going to try to figure out how we can address the metacrisis. So basically, this series of episodes
is very special to me. I think Daniel is extremely lucid, and I'm so thrilled that he decided to
come on the Green Pill podcast to talk about the metacrisis. Without further ado, I give you Daniel
Schmockenberger. The Opera Crypto Browser is the world's first web browser built for the crypto
community with Web3 support and a non-custodial wallet. Opera lets you access DeFi apps quickly
and easily. The Opera Wallet has buy, sell, and swap features. And of course, let's review your
beautiful NFTs. But the browser still lets you use any crypto wallet extension you prefer, giving you
the choice and flexibility for the Web3 world. Opera lets you view and manage all of your assets
across all the blockchains all at once, and offers seamless multi-chain support between Ethereum,
Bitcoin, Polygon, Binance Chain, and other EVMs and Layer 2s. But Opera goes even deeper than that.
Opera has a built-in homepage for crypto natives with the Opera Crypto Corner, with price charts,
news feeds, NFT updates to make sure you are always on top of your game. And it even has Discord
and Telegram integrated natively into the browser. That's crazy. Opera is truly building the battle
station for the crypto world. Check out Opera, both on mobile, with Android and iOS apps, and on
desktop too. ReFi Summer has arrived, and Sello is here for it. Sello is the Layer 1 blockchain for
the regenerative finance movement. It's fast, planet-positive, and built for the real world.
Sello has committed towards producing a sustainable future from the very beginning,
and is the world's first carbon negative EVM-compatible Layer 1 blockchain. Sello has become
much more than a technology, a currency, a community, or even just a Layer 1. Sello is a
movement to create conditions of prosperity for everyone. You can soon engage with all of this
via green asset Uniswap pools on Sello, benefiting reforestation and other regenerative products
through the Toucan protocol, MAS, and more. ReFi is also about the health of communities and resource
network is creating bankless infrastructure for circular trade and mutual credit networks to
benefit small businesses and local economies all on Sello. Follow along on Twitter to learn more
about how Sello is accelerating ReFi Summer for a positive impact on people, communities,
and the planet. If you're attending ECC, visit the Sello Saloon to learn about what's happening on
the front lines of ReFi from industry experts. Daniel, thanks so much for agreeing to do this
podcast episode with me. I'm happy to be here with you, Kevin. Yeah. So let's dive into the deep end.
What is the metacrisis, and how could the third attract or be a way out of it? Yeah, so just for
preface, we're getting into the metacrisis, which is a way of trying to assess the totality of risk
the world faces and the totality of the problem space that can kind of allow us to wrap our heads
around what humanity needs to do in a big picture sense as opposed to all of the separate catastrophes.
Why is this worth talking about? Because it can easily seem like doom porn or something,
or just a way to demotivate people. I do believe that this is actually something
humanity can rise to the occasion of an address. The famous Charles Kettering quote goes,
a problem fully understood is half solved. And the corollary of that is that a problem
not fully understood is probably unsolvable, because you're trying to address something that
is leaving out critical elements. And so this is not to be overwhelmingly catastrophic. It's to
try to understand the problem space well enough that we can really think through the design
criteria of adequate solutions. And obviously, you are a central node in an ecosystem of tool
builders that are trying to work on coordination and governance, which is so like, what are the
coordination needs of the world? What are the governance needs of the world? This is kind of
what we want to share the metacrisis as a frame for. So hopefully, what we do in this first
episode is try to share a picture of the state of the world that gives some constraints on what
has to happen by when. What are some of the underlying things to address? None of this is
obviously very web three specific. But then the future episodes that we do will be informed by.
So with that said, what is the metacrisis?
Most people are aware of climate change as a possibly catastrophic risk through a number of
different vectors. And well before the full like venusification of the planet, you start to get
extreme weather events causing massive human migration. We had extreme weather events affect
Australia massively, but in areas of low population. When that happens in India, Bangladesh,
Pakistan, Iran, extreme weather events in high population areas, high population density,
extreme human migration, resource shortages, hitting political amplifiers,
you start to have things that can lead to breakdowns of supply chains and large scale
war from climate change before climate change is fully catastrophic just via the planet in
hospital. So climate change even isn't one thing. It's a lot of things, right? And it's one of a
lot of other catastrophic risks environmentally. A lot of people are increasingly aware of dead
zones in the ocean from nitrogen runoff as a result of unstable agricultural practices and
total biodiversity loss and pollinator loss and erosion of top soils and biodiversity loss and
overfishing. And it's like, okay, there's the larger frame there is planetary boundaries.
We have been running a linear materials economy that extracts unrenowably from nature and then
turns it into trash and pollution in nature, much faster than nature can reproduce those things
that we need as raw resource or process to waste. And that linear materials economy
is connected to a financial economy requires exponential growth year over year, which means
we're trying to extract and externalize exponentially more every year from a finite
planet while you start to hit boundaries at some point where it's like we're just running out of
stuff to extract and running out of capacity for pollution. So the planetary boundaries model
and the forecasts associated like the MIT limits of growth model are MIT Club of Rome,
limits of growth model are ways of saying there's not just hundreds of different
environmental catastrophes, they're all the results of some deep underlying stuff like
an economic system that requires embedded exponential growth attached to a linear
materials economy that just doesn't work right like at a certain point you got to change that
thing. Right. On top of this, people are aware of from a crisis point of view, because even if
they weren't involved in like forecasting catastrophic risk and reading things like
Nick Bostrom, superintelligence, when people like Elon Musk and Henry Kissinger start talking very
publicly about the artificial intelligence risk being arguably the most catastrophic near-term
pressing risk to the world. It's like, okay, well, that's not climate change or environment,
that's the whole other thing. Right. And that is similarly not one risk, it's a lot of risks.
There's artificial general intelligence doing its own thing risk. There's artificial intelligence
optimizing for the wrong things and causing really powerful externalities like AI algorithms that
already run Facebook's News Feed and Instagram's News Feed and YouTube's that are increasingly
polarizing the population-breaking democracies that's already like causing catastrophe,
let alone happens or whatever. And then you have biotech existential risks because exponential
technology makes exponentially more powerful stuff exponentially cheaper, which means smaller
groups have access to catastrophe capacities. And so exponential tech makes like nuclear level
problems accessible to not just G8 nations, but all kinds of smaller groups over the next
handful of years. That's a big deal. It's very hard for the world to see how we could make it
through with drone weapons and bio weapons and AI weapons and cyber weapons. How does the world
make it through that well? So if we look at all of the environmental issues, all the exponential
tech issues, all of the fragilities of our global supply chains and the escalation pathways to war
at scale where the post-World War II system is breaking down for a bunch of reasons that we can
get into collectively, we can kind of call that the metacrisis. And so the metacrisis is not one
particular catastrophic risk. It's looking at all of them because to make it through, you have to
prevent all of them. To fail, you only have to have one of them happen. So we really have to take
that holistically. And then to think deeper about it is to say, man, is this really like
a thousand different issues that are all separately? We have to think about individually,
or do they all have certain underlying patterns in common? Where if we think about those patterns,
address those, it would address everything else. Is there some way in which these are all symptoms
of underlying issues? Obviously, your audience will be very sympathetic to the idea that coordination
failures are underneath all of these. Part of why we have the environmental issues is because
it's very hard to have any country decide to tax carbon if any other country doesn't,
because it's going to hurt their economy and hurt them geopolitically. And to make an international
agreement where everyone will takes international enforcement that is really hard to do,
that's a coordination failure. It's a good giant prisoner's dilemma.
A multi-polar prisoner's dilemma, multi-agent prisoner's dilemma, which is called a multi-polar
trap. So multi-polar traps, meaning anybody starts overfishing, then nobody has a reason to not
overfish because the fish will all get fucked anyways. And no one has the ability to protect the
fish, only have the ability to exploit it, and might as well be you rather than them if they're
going to use that to grow their population, instead of they're going to beat you in finance and
geopolitics and war with. And the same with if they're going to build the AI weapons, you better
build them faster. If they're going to build the bio weapons, you better build them in the
defense is faster. So you get these races to the bottom in a bunch of ways. So the arms race,
the tragedy of the commons, the first mover market advantage of tech that externalizes
a lot of harm. These are all examples of multi-polar traps. This is one example of
something underneath all of the crises. So the metacrisis has to solve multi-polar traps
metaphorically, not this particular one or that particular one. So the metacrisis frame is actually
quite useful because then we say, trying to solve each one of these issues and every time a new
technology occurs, a new arms race happens. So as we are having the cumulative effects of industrial
tech, hundreds of years of industrial tech bring us near planetary boundaries, and an exponential
rate of the increase in distribution of catastrophic power from exponential tech, it's like, okay,
we're going to have higher probability on more risks each year.
There's no way we can just keep protecting each one in a triage way. We have to get human
coordination to be fundamentally better. And this means things like we have to address
perverse incentives. How do we categorically identify where there are incentives of
institutions or agents or corporations that are deeply misaligned with other agents of the commons?
And how do we correct those or not? Because any problem that you're incentivizing,
you're going to have a hard time solving. How do we fix perverse incentive writ large?
It has to be a core question. Everybody in every institution, every tech designer is
thinking about all the time. How do we identify externalities and internalize them has to be
a core question. How do we identify multi-polar traps and resolve them? These are like generator
dynamics generated from the meta crisis. Got it. So let me just say back to you what
I heard to summarize for the audience. So it sounds like the meta crisis is like
a lot of different crises. It's the dead zones in the oceans. It's climate change. It's pollinator
loss. It's biodiversity loss, but it's not just living capital. It's AI risk and technology
breaking democracy. It can be biotech existential risks. We've got nuclear level technology being
decentralized into the hands of everyday people in a world that has increasing fragility because
our industrial age institutions are breaking down. And on top of that, we've got these planetary
boundaries which are fixed and we're running this linear materials economy with a political system
that has to have exponential growth in order to function like the government's literally forecast
two to four percent growth as a baseline for each of their economies. And so basically your
approach to this problem is we have to solve all these problems. We have to solve more than just
climate change. And you're looking at the systemic generator functions of these problems in order to
solve the giant prisoner's dilemma, multi-polar trap, arms race, tragedy of the commons that's
beneath all of them. And so you're kind of looking at the systemic generator functions
of these existential risk as a means of solving all of these different meta crises. Did I get
that close? That was the best recap I've ever heard, that's when I'm smiling. Great. So I think
that the second question, the first question I asked you is what is the meta crisis? And then the
second one was what is the third attractor as a way out of it? So let's pull that thread.
Yeah, so third attractor obviously indicates that there's two other attractors. Attractor is this idea
of in a very complex system, we might not be able to predict exactly the path something
takes, but you can say it's trending in a certain general direction, like almost a topological
direction. So when you think of attractive basins, think about a watershed. What particular pathway
or raindrop flows down the hillside, impossible to predict, right? Navier-Stokes equations on
fluid dynamics are actually unsolvable. To be able to say if it falls on this side of the mountain
range, it'll end up in this lake is pretty easy, right? Like the water is generally going to be
converging to this lake on this side of the mountain range is going to go to this one. So it's
like, oh, there's an attractor. This entire side of the watershed has an attractive basin. So even
though we can't predict all of the specifics, we can see general directions. So right now we would
say there are two very high level of tractors, the direction of the world and the generator
functions of the metacrisis are heading towards that both suck that we don't want. And one is
increasing catastrophes and breakdown. And the other is dystopic control structures.
So catastrophes and dystopias. At the Consilience Project, we have some papers on
chaos and oppression and stuff like that where we're looking at these models. People want to
turn to it. So catastrophes, we just talked about, right? And the catastrophes don't have to be like
one of the major nations launches a strategic nuclear war. It can be the entire global economy
keeps doing what it has to do. And nobody's trying to cause climate change, but climate change as a
as a externality of the thing that it has to do is the example of the coordination failure.
The distributed collective action is leading to a collective catastrophe that nobody wants,
but nobody feels like they can solve. Because unless everybody agrees to do the other thing,
anybody trying to do the other thing loses in the near term. And so the catastrophes are not the
result of somebody trying to do some done catastrophic thing that the result of the
coordination failures and that kind of attractor dynamic. The same way that it's like with climate
change or any environmental issues, it's very distributed. It's the entire market causing
them because almost every movement of goods or services has an environmental externality, right?
And even digital goods depend upon material supply chains to make semiconductors and transistors
and servers and satellites and shit like that. So the almost every dollar that transacts in the
world, something like $100 trillion a day has environmental externalities. That's a big deal
