So there was no real distinction in my environment.
But once the bacteria is divided into two, then I'm sitting and I'm observing some phospholipidness, which isn't in my sort of what I call my own boundary.
So then I've kind of created space, space and time is starting to appear, even though the petri dish hasn't changed in size, or my, you know, the universe hasn't really changed.
But it's the phospholipids, the orientation of the phospholipids.
So, yeah, I kind of I was just trying to liken it if this is a scale invariant principle, how can we liken it to how other things might experience space and time emerging.
That's where it's coming from.
Am I kind of totally barking up the wrong tree with that?
Or is there is that no, I think that's I think that's a really good question.
And I think you are you are constructing a very good kind of thought experiment.
And it's it's this sort of question that I'm really going to try to address in October of how how can we think about the FEP is a scale fairy theory in practice.
You know, as as applying at the level of of macromolecules as you were just describing, you know, how do we come up with a description of what a phospholipid say can actually measure what actually affects its state.
And, you know, to what extent does it have a self representation.
And this is that a phospholipid probably doesn't.
But the bacterium seems to have at least some degree of self representation.
I mean, it has an immune system that can feel stress.
So it's starting to seem like an organism that's not that different from us.
Even even something like E. Coli.
It can certainly it certainly behaves in what we call space.
But it's at least not clear to me that it has a representation of space.
Although it their processes in the E. Coli that do distinguish, say, the two ends of the E. Coli.
I mean, even if you think of the chemotaxis pathway, the two ends of that pathway are quite distinct functionally.
So perhaps E. Coli has a one dimensional representation of space.
It's anterior end from its posterior end.
But perhaps it doesn't have any representation of what we would call left and right or up and down.
So if you look at multi cellular organisms.
Even something like, say, Hydra is a spatially quite sophisticated kind of thing.
I mean, it's not bilateral.
It's cylindrically symmetrical.
But it's got a very large distinction between anterior and posterior.
And it seems to know quite a bit.
At least I understand from people who work on Hydra about its own body, the state of its own body.
And so I think these are exactly the same kinds of questions that we should be asking.
And they also apply at the scale that's much larger than us.
So if we think about a human society, for example, as an agent, what can that agent measure?
And what can that agent represent?
And how complex can that agent's cognition be?
And I think those questions are all essentially open.
So yeah, it's a great thought experiment.
I think it addresses exactly the questions that we're interested in addressing here.
Thank you, Chris, Harris, and then anyone else with a raised hand?
Yes. Thank you once again for allowing me to be here with all of you.
Interesting as always.
So I have a question that is related to this notion of the dual aspect of information, basically,
that the meaning of formation is not just a matter of interpretation,
but rather it is rooted in the physical properties of the system under investigation.
So basically that, as I understand it, means translates that the meaning of information is not separate from the physical properties of the system under investigation.
But it is rather an intrinsic part of it.
So I am also familiar with this notion of, from the theory of computation called the Embremerzmann's limit.
That is a limit on the maximum rate of computation that can be achieved, let's say, in a self-contained system within the material universe.
So my question is, how can we parse, let's say, that sort of computational limit in terms of information processing?
Thank you.
I am not sure that we can talk about a...
I think it's very difficult to talk about the classical information processing capability of the universe as a whole.
I mean, one has to impose some sort of classical description.
And the question is then, where does that description come from?
And from kind of whose point of view is that a description?
But certainly, as soon as you partition the universe as a whole into some system and some other system,
one can immediately talk about their information processing capabilities.
And then the question becomes, quantum information processing capabilities versus classical information processing capabilities.
And if you're looking at classical information processing to the extent that it's not reversible, it requires energy.
And so one can immediately derive limits based on the free energy access of that system.
If you're talking about reversible information processing, which purely quantum information processing is,
then you don't have that energetic requirement, but you also don't have a well-defined answer in any classical terms.
And it's only if Alice is your system of interest that's able to do quantum information processing,
then it's only her interaction partner, Bob, who can use her as a quantum computer.
And then his ability to employ Alice as a quantum computer is limited by his classical information processing capabilities,
because he has to define a classical input and a classical output.
So I think this question becomes very complicated as soon as it is cast in these observable relative terms.
But search limits clearly exist, right? They just require certain assumptions to define them.
So quantum information can indeed be understood as a kind of dual to the classical information, right?
Yes, and it's essentially one of these bulk boundary-type dualities that seem now to be ubiquitous in physics.
If we think of, just think in terms of the holographic principle, you can have quantum processing going on in the bulk in the system that has a boundary.
And that can encode, that can read classical information from the boundary and encode classical information on the boundary.
And the quantitatively, the holographic principle tells you how much, right?
What can the maximum entropy, classical entropy of the boundary be?
But what it doesn't tell you is anything about the semantics that either the system inside assigns to the information or any observer outside assigns to the information.
It's just a quantitative statement.
So in any setting that's characterized by that principle, the classical information on the boundary is dual in an interesting sense to the quantum processing that's going on inside.
And that classical information on the boundary encodes everything that an external observer can know about what's going on on the inside.
Thank you.
Anna, and then Dean after.
Hi, thank you very much.
I'm also new to your active inference and your course.
I just want to say that unfortunately I work with humans and but and I say unfortunately because the complexities are horrific.
So, having said that maybe my, my question will make sense.
So as I'm learning about quantum information theory, and I'm what I'm trying to do is assess how can this help me answer questions that I have in the systems that I work with.
My question is, in order to have a time arrow irreversible process.
Don't you need to have a goal?
And so and so my question is, does it matter to even worry about goals?
Because as I listen to all the descriptions, and I think about Alice and Bob and systems.
I immediately think about, well, so much of what we're talking about depends upon the goal of the system.
And in some very abstract way, it seems to me that there's a goal that's driving the need for the boundary, the need for the communication.
So, I'm, I, I'm so obsessed with this question that I wanted to ask about ask it early on, before I proceed with my learning.
That's, that's a very good question.
You can think of the whole free energy principle as a way of describing physical systems in a way that makes their behavior as agents of obvious.
So the, the FEP, you could state the FEP by saying that every system has a goal, and its goal is minimizing prediction error.
Or to put it positively, its goal is to predict and therefore respond to its environments actions in a way that preserves its own identity.
And I don't know whether you've read much of Carl Friston's work, but he uses the word self evidencing a lot.
It says the goal of any system is to generate evidence of its own existence, which sounds very psychological.
And Carl, interestingly enough, studied first as a psychiatrist.
So I expected his point of view is actually very consonant with your question and where you're coming from here.
Yeah, actually, I started, I'm sorry, didn't mean to interrupt.
No, no, go ahead.
No, I started, I spent some time reading Chris Friesen's ideas and work on the free energy principle and self evidencing.
And yes, I will continue to dig deep.
The problem is, so I'm an anthropologist, and I've worked with indigenous people since spent 20 years of my life living in these small scale societies.
And so one of my observations is that, and that I find really fascinating, but we don't have a good understanding of it.
And that's why I decided to dig into physics as information processing, which is that goals are constantly being negotiated.
And it's more among the minds.
So Michael Levine's work is actually was what led me to explore quantum information theory, which is, you know, like this collective intelligences that are exist within systems.
And so at each level of collective intelligence, it's not just that you have a collective intelligence dictating a goal, but that those goals are being negotiated as different as the environments change.
And as relationships between the systems change.
So I know these, these are very big questions, but if you could just like help me give me some thoughts on what your thoughts have been about these kinds of questions.
Yeah, I think you're pointing to something very important here. And this is a question that this kind of free energy principle based work motivates immediately.
When you consider a system that comprises a bunch of subsystems.
You know, I, I work with Mike, Michael Levin at Tufts in developmental biology.
Yeah.
And one of his slogans is all intelligence is collective.
And that immediately brings up this issue of, how do these components, as you put it, negotiate their goals, how do they, how do they collaborate, how do they compete to what extent are they trying to deceive each other or coerce
each other or all of us.
And we're, you know, trying to apply this in a cell biology context.
As a, as a description of development and morphogenesis, if you think about cells in a developing organism, they're constantly facing new environments.
Their capabilities are constantly changing.
And they interact with each other is constantly changing.
And this all seems very psychological or sociological.
So I, I think what you're pointing to is the ubiquitous need for this kind of language.
In areas other than the human sciences, I mean, it's language that it's developed within the human sciences.
And it's language that seems to be important.
At much smaller scales.
And, you know, clearly what I, what would anticipate it being important, much larger scales, you know, the scales of countries or civilizations or whatever.
So, I guess my answer is yes, this is an extremely important point of view with very broad implications for how we think about biology at least.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Definitely looking forward to your continued learnings and journey.
Thank you.
Yeah, my question has changed three times because just the other questions that have come up in the meantime.
So some context here.
Chris, you, you, you kind of answered this, you mentioned dual as a du al.
And then Anna brought up, like, is there some kind of competition, a dual, a du al going on?
And how do we put those two things together and me always thumping the table minimum to we have to have to keep at least two truisms up at once if we're going to gain some sense around things.
I want to go back to that lock.
The LOCC slide, if we can for a second, because Chris, you mentioned your statement was you draw a boundary and to me there's a lot of information packed in those four words.
You can draw and you can undraw, you can bound, you can unbound.
Those are perfectly contextless subject matter information carrying frames.
But you also have in that packet you and out which are imperfect orientations and indefinite article and all of us occupying a slide here none of us claiming to be anything other than a contradiction.
So one aspect of that packet, two words of it, literally half of it is is perfectly contextless and is information carrying and the other literally half of that is prediction matter or information graphing.
It's literally the the byproduct or the the space time construct that that is included.
So I guess what I'm wondering is is, how do we make these different matters the subject matter and the prediction matter tango how do we get them to relate because in the session five.
You went on a detour you said we'll take a detour which is it holds this exact same structure as you draw boundary.
So there's perfect information, and there's imperfect information in that they're dancing.
We do this all the time.
This seems to me at a minimum what information theory is.
And that's why I want to kind of go back to this slide because the slide was in a much earlier session, but it got to session five where the context could be recapitulated.
And so I'm wondering whether or not we can really talk about quantum information without the classical or if there's that's even possible.
Well, I'll go back to Boris.
Boris statement in his night 2028 paper.
He basically said the answer to that question is no.
That we are humans we have to communicate with each other we have to do it in language.
And that's classical communication.
And if while while sorry, while we are doing that while while we're having this conversation.
We can't be worried about the question of do I still exist or you know do you still exist.
We can worry about that question, but we can't do it at the same time that we're having this conversation about the theory of lot protocols or or exchanging data from a belly PR experiment.
And that's, of course, deeply paradoxical.
And I think that's just the situation we're in.
He said, none of us are claiming to be anything other than a contradiction.
It's a good thing that we are self conscious about the fact that we're, we're doing something contradictory here, or potentially contradictory here.
I think I wrote a paper several years ago called Science Generates Limit Paradoxes.
And we basically rehearsed a version of this very discussion that we're having right now.
And the the upshot of that paper is that in any situation in which a science can turn its theoretical apparatus on to its own practice.
For example, when physics can turn this analysis of boundaries on to the practice of physics, then it generates paradoxes.
And those paradoxes have a particular structure.
Which is the structure that a priest, I can't remember his first name, a logician who works in non-dialythic logic calls a limit paradox.
And if, you know, all of this is coupled to Gertl's theorem and these other paradoxes of self reference or aspects of self reference.
But I think this, I think this situation really is ubiquitous and inescapable.
That as soon as we apply the tools of science to the practice of science, we generate these paradoxical situations in which we have to acknowledge that we are entities of a certain sort.
And that we are constructing our theories using a faculty of imagination that lets us act as if we don't have a point of view.
So it lets us act as if what we're talking about is point of view independent.
But our theories themselves tell us that we have points of view and that they're important.
So we're stuck in this paradoxical situation.
I don't know whether that's what you're trying to point to here.
But it's what I immediately leap to hearing what you said.
Yeah, a lot there. Anyone else want to add a piece?
I'm going to have to go away.
Thank you, Chris. We'll stay for a few minutes. Thank you, though. This was awesome. We're really looking forward to lecture six.
Okay. Thank you all. And thank you all for attending this discussion session. It's nice to have this kind of real time discussion, which is missing during the actual lecture sessions.
So I appreciate it. Thanks again.
Thank you. See you. Thank you. Thank you, Chris.
Kate, do you want to ask anything or anyone can just bring up anything they're thinking right now?
Nothing in particular. I'm just really looking forward to the last lecture on the biology of it all.
Great.
Well, any other thoughts or questions or if anyone in the live chat has a thought or a question, they can write it and we'll read it in the coming minutes.
Well, I just wanted to thank you for creating the space. It's been absolutely amazing that I was able to find this situation where people are talking about enormous questions and very difficult questions.
And I just thought I'd share that I find in academia there's, I don't know why we're not having these conversations.
And I've been, it's been like a 10 year journey. And I have finally found this group. So I just wanted to express my gratitude.
Thank you.
I'll read a question from the live chat and anyone can give their thoughts.
So Mills 8102 wrote, it seems that conciliants would aim to ameliorate the problems of self reference. Is this a category of solution that seems valuable or fraught?
Could conciliants ameliorate the problems of self reference?
Yes, Dean.
And I just asked a different question built on that, which is what if the contradiction is a feature as opposed to a fraughtness?
