Do I contradict myself? Very well then. I contain multitudes. There's the Whitman angle. Then there's the William Blake. Life is a fiction and is made up of contradiction.
So what is the problem of self reference?
Whose problem is it? Harris?
Yeah, I will try to answer a bit, to tackle a bit both questions and by offering my views from the cognitive science perspective.
Basically, I think it has to do with conciliants, has to do with the numerous co-creative bias that we all are, let's say, subjected to.
So there is a very long list of co-creative biases and there are more than 100 listed, I think.
So this is one of the challenges in terms of achieving, let's say, good levels of conciliants across various domains.
So this is what I wanted to add.
Another thought on that is conciliants, though it can mean many things, synthesis.
Sorry, David. Oh yeah, please, Anna, go ahead.
Oh yeah, I just, so I don't really have insight into the self referencing problem. I need to do a lot of thinking about that.
But coming from training in evolutionary biology and spending, you know, graduate school, postgraduate school, working on explanations where we thought of many hypotheses, models, etc.
Based on a goal, which is organisms are designed to maximize their fitness.
And of course, there are lots of, you know, there are lots of problems with that.
And it turns out with our data, what we found is that was not the case in the populations that we're working with.
Too often, the goal did not seem to be fitness.
So, but what that experience gave me is that there was something we could hang on to in order to allow ourselves to propose models for why humans behave the way they do and the decisions that they make.
So that's why I go back to goals, because if whatever level of collective intelligence we're talking about, there is a goal.
But even in Harris, please let me know if this would be correct that even cognitive biases exist.
They exist because there is some goal and therefore we can talk about cognitive biases with respect to some goal.
Yes, there is some sort of teleonomy in conscious agents or personal systems, as I call them.
And it has to do with goals, yes, and cognitive biases and the limitations on the knowledge, let's say, maybe it's limitations on parts of the knowledge representation that each of us has.
Maybe there are limitations in terms of access to knowing, and there are various forms of knowing.
So it depends, it depends on many things.
And for example, one of the cognitive bias that I believe can have a negative impact on on resilience, let's say, in in addressing the this self-referentiality will be the halo effect.
So where you seem to prioritize, let's say, or give some advantage to some types of individuals, ideas or even theories, because of that halo or whatever reason that is, it is based on maybe on many different things,
maybe on your past history or other things.
Thank you.
Anna, and if I may add something rather briefly, your question reminded me of Levin's, and I think it was written with Phil.
They propose all about the reduction of stress as a goal that guides the emergence of collective structures.
It's one of the papers formulated that that that seems to be the goal that drives things as they grow in complexity, reduction of collective stress or reduction of stress at any level.
Yeah, I don't remember the title of the paper, but that was just to modify, understood it correctly.
Thank you.
I'll look that up.
Great.
Another piece that of the Levinson Fields collaboration that Chris alluded to earlier is that the notion of computation is observer dependent.
That's poly computation.
If there was a fully encrypted computation, an observer without the key would only be seeing noise to them.
Whereas if they were to have the decryption key, then they could fully understand and go into more detail about the computation.
So then let's say that we're in relation or observing or investigating some life phenomena at some scale.
But we're speaking in a scale free setting, but we're observing a thing that's there.
People have ascribed different goals to describe what we call goal oriented behavior like seemingly to survive or seemingly to have evolutionary fitness.
However, one, an observer could also project different proximate goals like the goal to minimize stress, the goal to minimize free energy, the goal to minimize surprise.
Those proximate observer proposed goals as if goals may be exactly isomorphic or aligned with fitness maximization.
So that could just be multiple perspectives of projective goals.
And whatever the observer projects, that doesn't mean it describes the actual process of the phenomena at all.
There's just nothing Alice can make any story about Bob, and it may or may not have anything to do or even be possible to be of the kind that Bob tells about themselves.
Dean.
This is I want to just piggyback on that.
This is really hugely important.
The moment you use the word goals, or the moment you use the word fitness, you are at assuming context.
Whereas a lot of this stuff that's happening on this holographic screen is completely abstract less abstracted and completely context less.
There's no no context required.
So if you're going to focus on that part of it, as long as you can juggle both at the same time and keep the two things apart, because one does not require context.
The other completely assumes that context is given.
And now you're taking that into your calculus, right?
But they're not the same thing.
So I'm just, I want to reinforce what Daniel just said.
Thank you, Dean, Ian.
I'm here then continue.
Thank you. Yeah, I just maybe reinforcing what you were saying or reflecting on it.
I was thinking about the behaviors we see in other animals and even ourselves that we might not think are related to fitness.
Like, I don't know, there's these those kind of gazelle type creatures that just jump into the air.
And like, but they seem to do that at a time which might make them be predated upon by some tiger or lion, which, you know, it's you have to then all the sort of biologists try and figure out how is this related to fitness.
And they may do the same, you know, if I go and mow my lawn, waste half a Sunday afternoon mowing my lawn, what's that got to do with my fitness?
Well, actually, it's to do with keeping up with the Joneses and my social status.
So it's really hard to actually know what my behavior is about.
I can create a story to say that it's to do with minimizing free energy or fitness, but really is it or not?
I don't know.
Is that kind of what you were getting at or something different?
Yeah, it's great.
Point also, it's come up several times about goals.
The term goal is not to be found within the active inference ontology strictly speaking.
That's why we have so much fun with what we expect and what we prefer.
How can it be what we expect and be the positive thing that we pursue?
Well, that's how paths of least action work.
And then if somebody else wants to look at that path of least action and say, well, here was a mile point and this is where it looked like they were heading north.
And this is where it looked like the goal was to evade this.
Those are all stories that an observer could tell about a path or that the path might tell itself about its own path.
But those goal narratives don't need to be implemented approximately or primarily with goals as a kind of core player in the active inference ontology.
I'll read some of these great comments and questions.
If anybody has a thought on them from the live chat, just feel free.
John Reed wrote, what does the active inference group?
I think that's us, but includes everyone.
Think about the equation of pilot wave with many worlds recently expounded upon by Chris O'Dowd at PBS.
I found it to be mixing terms and frustrating personally.
Any thoughts on pilot wave and many worlds?
And I would also just be curious on the physics or technical side.
Where does what Chris is sharing connect to these kinds of discussions that people have about many worlds and different interpretations of quantum?
Yeah, that's a great question.
So I don't know that I can answer it.
I know that when it comes to interpretations of quantum mechanics, whether the collapse or the many worlds or whatever,
I think what they're hinting at is an increase would probably answer something along those lines that quantum theory is fundamentally about information.
And until we make sense of that fully and fully spell out all the details,
I think these philosophical issues are the interpretations of quantum mechanics are going to linger.
I don't have any strong thoughts on interpretations,
and I would say I'm an agnostic about interpretations of quantum mechanics.
And I don't know that I'll subscribe to any of them.
And especially pilot wave, I don't have the slightest idea about it.
Yes, if you allow me, I have a small story regarding pilot wave.
I was conversing with chat GPT, and I actually asked what it thought about pilot wave after watching a lecture on it.
And then I got intrigued and I wanted to ask, and this actually happened.
The model started replying, and I got the chance to read a bit the reply.
The reply was like, it is very interesting, but most probably it's not correct.
It is wrong. And then it must have reached some sort of information goal.
It retracted the reply and it replied to me, can you ask me a different question?
So this is my short experience with pilot wave theory.
Can you ask a question, is a pilot wave more or less than 100 feet in height?
I think it's exactly, exactly 100.
Any other thoughts or questions?
It's a fun and lively live chat too, which is always fun.
Yeah, well, we are coming right along in the year and now five sixth completed with this course.
So any comments that anyone here just wants to make in a closing round?
Anybody who wants to can go for it.
Yeah, I have a question. If questions come up, have come up during the session?
Yes.
When could I, who could I send them to and how?
Great question.
In the video description, you can get to the syllabus of the course and one of the pages on the course website course syllabus is a question and answer form.
You'll see several dozen questions that people have already written and Chris gives answers and then it's publicly posted.
All of the lectures, discussions and questions and answers will be published after the course.
So every question, no matter from where or where to, all of these questions are encouraged.
It only makes it a richer and more relevant publication.
Thank you.
Okay, Ian, Harris or Dean?
Yes, Susan also says post and discord. Great point.
Yeah, I just wanted to add a small point as a conclusion from my personal personal perspective.
I really find that the ideas or the ideas of Chris fields, they can be revolutionized.
Revolutionary, let's say in a variety of different fields fields.
And I can see it in quantum cryptography and also about what I've mentioned before in terms of quantum knowledge representation.
So these are the two fields that I can clearly see it.
So it is great to be able to participate in this conversation.
So once again, thanks to blue.
Great to participate in this conversation or quantum knowledge representation, whichever you prefer.
Andrew, any last comments?
I'm not really just looking forward to the next one, I guess.
And next year, I should say it was next year. This is going to be an ongoing thing.
Yes, we'll come back stronger next year for sure.
Okay, what a ride. Thank you all. See you next time.
Bye.
Thank you.
