co-evolution, but it's a common mechanism that is pointed to in diversification of organisms.
With escape from adaptive conflict, the basic idea there is the gene duplication. So it's one of
the theories for speaking about how gene duplication is involved in the origins of novel functions at
the molecular level. Gene duplication results in redundancy, and you've got one of those genes
holding down the fort, so to speak, like carrying on the ancestral function. So it's still under the
same selection pressure, the same constraints associated with the function that it's had a
long evolutionary history with, but because you've now got redundancy, you've got another copy,
or maybe many copies in some cases, we see these incredibly huge redundant arrays of genes sometimes,
and this is really common with toxins, and there are reasons why toxins are often recruited from
these multi-gene families, which is essentially this reason, which is that there's a reduction
of constraint on the function of each individual member, and so there's a transformation of the
fitness landscape, essentially, you can think of it. So think something that was rugged for that
individual gene becomes smooth for an array of redundant genes, and then where it gets really
cool for me, or where I've extended, I think, a little bit, brought these escape and radiate and
escape from adaptive conflict into just more direct contact, is that when a gene product
is then, so you've got these redundant genes, and you've got some reduction of constraint there,
but when a gene product is then directed outside the body of the organism that produces it,
again, its constraints are completely different there. So for example, you go from not wanting to
poison yourself by producing too much of this gene product to, well, actually maybe producing
large quantities of it in very particular tissues, so there's a gene expression, there's a regulatory
discussion to have here as well, could be something that is positively selected, because
for a toxin, sometimes more is just better, whereas for something that has a tightly constrained
gene dosage requirements within the body of the organism that produces it, obviously, you can't
just, well, there you maybe can't just accumulate duplicates without suppressing the expression
levels of each of them, otherwise you just end up getting far too much of the gene product,
but basically, all of that is just to say that it seems like kind of a similar thing,
like with your frog skin cells or your human the lung cells, right, for the antropods,
not that one would ever have predicted that they would have this particular response to that escape
from adaptive conflict or whatever, but it seems like kind of the same thing, basically,
they had an ancestral function, they were tightly constrained by their context, their environment,
and then having left that context, having been taken out of that context by you guys,
they have suddenly been freed up to explore other competencies they had that were previously
suppressed, and so that almost gets mapped onto a kind of exaptation story, but
change of context equals change of constraint equals change of phenotype ultimately.
Yeah, I agree with that, I think all that makes a lot of sense. Well, two things, one is in the
standard escape and radiate story, it takes multiple generations to get out, right, and so I think
this is interesting, because what it tells us is that there's actually a tremendous amount that
can be done in one, you know, basically in one, it's like with the tadpoles that we had where we
put the eyes on the tail, and they could see fine from those eyes, even though the eye was connected
to the spinal cord not to the brain, you didn't need multiple rounds of selection to get into
this new sensory motor system architecture, like one generation, like a spine, they can see.
So that plasticity, I'm gonna assume that that plasticity really potentiates this escape and
radiate thing, if you're already capable of doing that out of the box, then of course, put that
together with rounds of generations, like that's the other thing. Well, just to say that because
it's a particularly vivid example of a plasticity, whereas maybe with something like a toad,
you're not seeing this morphological change, although there are changes in morphology
in some of the Australian populations of toads, for example, but you're not necessarily seeing
that immediately, but you are seeing a total change of behavior straight away, like straight away.
So instead of being more cryptic, because you're worried that, you know, your environment is full
of predators that might feed on you, well, suddenly there can be selection on boldness,
now you might be foraging at different times of the day.
Juvenile toads in Australia can be diurnal, and that's really helpful for them because they're
avoiding predation from adult toads, which are nocturnal, which now have become the most significant
toxin-resistant predator in their environment, whereas in an environment where there are tons of
potentially diurnal predators that could feed on juvenile toads, they might be constrained in that
way. So you would see, and we could tell similar stories at the molecular level in terms of, you
know, now you can suddenly bind and, you know, occlude a certain receptor, which if you did too
much of that within the body, you know, of the organism that produces it, it would have this
autotoxic effect. So I think that there are similarities with immediate shifts in at least
behavioral phenotypes when you're talking about organisms. It may not seem as vivid,
but I think it's still similar. Like, it's not necessarily something that takes dozens of generations
or whatever to happen, but sorry I interrupted you. No, no, that's great. Yeah, that's very
interesting. The only other thing I was going to say is, which I didn't know this the last time we
talked, so this is kind of new data, which is that we asked, and we're in the process of writing
this up, so there'll be a pre-print on it, I don't know, in a month or so, but we asked the question
of what genes do xenobots express and antelots express that the normal cells don't express.
So what new genes are they turning on that normal embryos in the one hand, the normal lung tissue
in the other hand doesn't express? Hundreds and hundreds of new genes for their new lifestyle,
you know, that are really being triggered. And again, so no trans genes we didn't put, we had no
drugs, no nothing, just a slightly new lifestyle. Say, even the medium is the same, you know,
there's literally very little in the environment that's different, but they are in a different
configuration now, and their behavior is different, and now they're dipping into the genome to pull
out a whole other transcriptional, you know, set of transcriptional programs, some very interesting
stuff there. Yeah, that's incredible. And I mean, you have that other example with the barium exposure
of the planaria, right, where they did something, I mean, it's different, but similar in the sense
that they very rapidly changed their gene expression. And I think this is the way that you
would frame it, you are revealing a plasticity which might be much more generic than we normally
imagine it to be. And there are going to be other examples which we get, and we're talking about
drugs and toxins. So we can look at the way that an exogenous molecule dramatically and
rapidly changes the gene expression of the target organism. And, you know, you can talk about that
in the great examples from like parasites and things like that. And obviously, you know, we
can talk about zombie ants and all sorts of fun things like that, you know, but you can talk about
parasitoid wasps that inject eggs and various, you know, toxins or effector molecules that change
the immune, like immediately change the immune system and change patterns of gene expression in
the immune system of the organisms that they're injected into, or you can just talk about like
drinking alcohol, and how that affects patterns of gene expression over a 12-hour period or something,
right? So they're absolutely not undermining the uniqueness of the xenobots and the
antrobots. But I think what they're pointing to, just an incredibly vivid example of processes
which actually turn out to be much more generic. And so people don't necessarily think about a
hangover as associated with changes of gene expression in the brain, but it is, you know.
Partly, that's part of what's going on there. Why are you so sensitive to light and all of that when
you, you know, you wake up and why can't you get back to sleep, you know? You pass out. I mean,
not you, Mike. Not us sensible, you know, mature adults, but, you know, one who has drunk too much
and passes out and then wakes up early in the morning feeling really wired and can't go to sleep.
Well, you know, you've had a sort of glutamate suppression effect when you've drunk too much
alcohol and you've had a change in gene expression in so, in glutamaturgic pathways in order to
compensate for that effect on gene expression. And now suddenly, when your glutamate suppression,
well, the alcohol is gone, so glutamate suppression is over, but you've up-regulated,
say, glutamate receptors. Suddenly, you've got an excess. You've got, you know, your glutamaturgic
activity is peaking in an unhealthy way. And that's because there's been this compensatory
swing in your gene expression. So, and I mean, those sorts of things, that's just another vivid
example of something that's just going on all the time, you know, like the way that things we put
in our body or behaviors we engage in, things we perceive are changing our gene expression,
you know, from, you know, very fine-grain levels to quite profound ones.
So, yeah, they just feel like incredible model systems that you've got for uncovering those
sort of underlying generic mechanisms. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I see it. Yeah, super cool. Well, I
think, yeah, I mean, this content that we've outlined is amazing. I guess the question is,
do we already, do we already have a specific outline of all this, or should we, or should we
make one? I mean, I haven't taken notes yet. Yeah, we have an outline, but it's an old one.
And I think, I mean, I think it's certainly, you know, enough and suitable for us to work from.
But if you've got more notes, and obviously we've got this recording that we can that we can refer
to, there's any particular thoughts that have come up on the basis of this, we should just
incorporate them. And, but yeah, I kind of see it as the original outline was just,
you know, chemical ecology and your framework and how they like sort of classic chemical ecology
and your framework and how they are, you know, conceptually, they're all of these,
these fantastic resonances and this, you know, layered ecology, layered ecologies that molecules,
you know, that we can use to understand the molecules through, like, we need to have this
layered perspective in order to understand even why a molecule looks the way it is in evolutionary
terms. That's kind of something we haven't really talked about. But I think we can introduce that
and maybe the potential for energy principle connections there in the initial article whilst
making these analogy, well, just showing the resonances between chemical ecology and the
work that you've been doing. And then the next article was going to be more focused on origins
of novel functions. So, so one of the things we just talk about in passing in the first article is,
you know, molecular tools and how molecular tools are discovered, you know, and derived.
And then the second paper can be talking about origins of novelty, kind of broadly,
but using molecular tools and things like toxin sequestration and just change of context,
equaling, you know, these kinds of analogies between escape and radiate, escape from adaptive
conflict and things that are going on with xenobots and anterobots could be the second paper.
And then the third paper was going to be more on the way these things,
the way the rubber might hit the road in terms of integrating this somatic psychiatry
perspective, you know, or take how, how is this interaction between chemical ecology and your
work and your work is defined as, you know, somatic psychiatry, feeding back into actual
psychiatry to some extent, you know, what are we learning about some of these mechanisms from
recognizing the resonances at these different levels of description that could potentially
be useful for a treatment of, well, a treatment in both senses, I suppose, like for taking a
perspective on mental health disorders, but also thinking about the way that we actually treat
them. I like that a lot. Yeah.
