the chili. And that's something that we see with a lot of plants, well, a number of plants and
fungi that make psychoactive molecules as well, right? You know, cannabis has a global distribution.
And, you know, some people claim that there's no, there are no cannabis sativa plants in the world
that are descended from, you know, genuinely wild stock. So it's all, you know, the product of a
history of, of domestication, you know, poppies, even philosophy producing fungi, you know, are
found everywhere in the world. And some of that at least is, is humans having spread it either,
you know, intentionally or accidentally. But yeah, what the, what these, they might be secondary
metabolites, which essentially just means we don't know what they do in the, they're not part of the,
of the, you know, they don't have a core regulatory function. So they probably have some
externally oriented function, maybe in deterrence, some form of signaling. So they are signaling
molecules, perhaps, and a toxin is a kind of signaling molecule, right? And often toxins target
signaling pathways. And so, you know, you get neurotoxins of all sorts in all sorts of enemas
and poisonous animals that target very specific receptors in invertebrates or invertebrates.
And obviously, you can understand in, in a kind of antagonistic co-evolutionary or,
or indeed a mutualist situation, why there would be this tight relationship between, say, toxin and
target or, or, you know, just any molecule and its target molecule, it's sort of selected
interaction partner. But why we get these apparently contingent effects? Well, again,
it may be that we are just the, the, the bycatch or the, you know, we're caught in the crossfire of
some interaction. So maybe there's been a kind of an evolutionary arms race between, you know,
fungi that produce molecules like psilocybin and certain invertebrates for a long time. And
certainly invertebrates have, you know, serotonin and, and, you know, very, and similar receptors
to us. Because a lot of these, these, as you know very well, you know, a lot of these core
signaling pathways and other molecular pathways are just incredibly conserved. They've been around
for hundreds of millions of years. And so maybe, you know, it's, it's aiming to have one effect
on a common predator, say, of, of the fruiting bodies of the mushroom, something that, you know,
maybe disrupts the, the, the spore distribution of mushrooms. Maybe it's mammals, you know,
maybe specifically they're trying to deter mammals who eat entire fruiting bodies and
take all the spores with them so they don't get dispersed properly. And then, you know,
that basic, you know, function of disorienting and confusing and all of that sort of stuff
turns out to be something that under certain circumstances is actually, I don't know,
insight generating, you know, because it's breaking your frames of reference, right,
which is potentially terrifying. Suddenly, you know, all of your, your, you know,
meaningful information is all turned upside down. That's very potentially alarming,
but it could also be very, very useful, right. So that's pretty vague and hand wavy, all that
I'm saying, but I don't think we have a really good understanding of, of what
selection pressures have really led to the shaping of these things beyond the fact that
there are these just incredibly conserved pathways across the tree of life.
Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, that's really interesting. I mean, it always seemed to me, you know,
mushrooms, it's very easy for them to kill you in the way through microtubule or, you know,
disrupting age, right? And those things are conserved like wise, right? Extremely wide.
So that's pretty, that's pretty trivial. You know, if you wanted to kill the, kill the,
the predator easy enough, the question is like, you know, how do you get these super subtle
kinds of things, which, you know, you've spoken to, I think, yeah, I think, I think it's, I think
it's really, really interesting. And yeah, we'll see, we'll see what, what we can, what we can get
hold of, you know, in terms of experimental. I think in terms, in terms of killing versus teaching,
let's say, you know, that's been a persistent discussion in, you know, toxinology circles,
studying just defensive toxins in general, you know, and even, you know, including defensive
venoms, you know, and it gets into discussions of mimicry amongst like snake complexes, you know,
where you have snakes that are obvious mimics of each other, and one has a potentially fatal,
but not particularly painful bite. And the other one has a highly painful, you know,
both enemas, but the other one has a highly painful, but not as likely to be fatal bite
to something like a human or a large mammalian predator. You know, some people argue, which,
which is the actual model and which is the mimic, you know, where does more, where does more learning
occur in terms of how, what's, what's the best deterrence? Is it just killing the animal that,
that interferes with you? I mean, there's going to be lineage level learning, obviously, if you,
if you just kill organisms that interact with whatever the, you know, the, the poisonous organism
is. But it actually might be, it's an alternate pathway, and we can't say one is better than the
other, but it might be equally as good to not kill, but to induce some profound learning in
that organism. And I mean, you could even speculate, especially if you were targeting a social organism
in some way, you know, if you can teach an individual, they can go and teach all the others,
hey, you know, better avoid those. We don't, I mean, there are so many things that can be
going on, and there are so many contingencies in why different organisms are, you know,
ultimately developing different functions for their toxins, that it's, it's going to be really,
really hard to disentangle all of those sorts of things, right? Yeah, interesting. Well, I think,
I mean, just, just right there with nothing else, I think we have a very interesting set of stories
to tell people about this, this, this notion of, you know, broader, but also specifically
developmental and morphogenetic hacking via, you know, and how, and how it is that, that in nature,
these things get explored and picked up and, and so on. You know, and then I could, I could talk
about the, you know, some of the implications for, for morphogenic engineering and things like that.
Yeah, I mean, I think it would be cool for, for the paper to go through just a bunch of different,
you know, chemical ecology type interactions from, again, these mutualisms to, to, to various
forms of, of antagonism, etc., and then how these things can shift over. And just basically how
organisms disrupt or manipulate each other's physiology or metabolism, and sort of reorient
the attracting set, essentially. I mean, that's where it gets really fine and elegant, right,
where we're not just killing, we're not just disrupting the thing to, you know, spiral it out
of control and, you know, unto death, but actually installing new set points. So shifting the organisms,
you know, by molecular economy, the way it's managed, the, the attractors that various homeoretic
flows are under the influence of, like actually shifting them somewhere else. And what makes
that cool is that that just immediately brings us into line with what we're intending to do with any
molecular tool, like a drug, right? We're basically saying that this system is under the influence
of some pathological set of attractors. And this become very clear in a kind of, you know,
dynamical systems treatment of, of mental health disorders, like dynamical systems perspective
on mental health disorders. It's under the influence of some, you know, a barren set of
attractors, i.e. stuck in a rut. And we are trying to, with a targeted pharmacological intervention,
trying to shift it out of, out of that rut. And then you have a comparison there at that level
between things like, sort of, you know, psychotropic medications, things like SSRIs, which you mentioned,
and maybe ADHD medication, and things like that, where there's chronic medication, where the underlying
principle is that we, we, you know, again, we've got this pathological state, and we're going to slowly
and force the whole system into what we think is a, is a healthy normal state.
Or you've got disruptive pharmacology, where when you speak of things like psychedelic therapies
and that sort of stuff, really, the only idea there is to, is to just, you know, disrupt that
habitual pattern, that habitual pathological pattern, and give the system an opportunity to
reconstitute itself, to recalilize itself in relation to some, you know, healthier set of
attractor states, right? So there are two fundamentally different paradigms there about
the way that we, that we use drugs. And one, one is, it's not really micromanaging to use some of
the, you know, the terms that you, that you, that you often use. It's not really micromanaging, but
it is kind of assuming with psychotropic medication that we know that it's, you know, we're going to
be able to force this system, you know, under the constant influence of the, of the exogenous
chemical of the drug into a healthier state. Whereas with the disruptive mode, there's none
of that micromanaging, there's giving the thing an opportunity, it's just giving it a leg up in
some sense, giving it an opportunity to reconstitute itself. And obviously that's where the importance
of psychotherapy and, and, you know, setting the, the rails in a different way becomes, becomes so
important. But you know, one of the things to go all, you know, kind of right back to the beginning,
you know, one of the things where I think we can, we can start with, with, with this thirst
paper is talking about, so kind of mapping your multi-scale competence architecture
against what I have been thinking about for a long time as sort of a layered ecology of molecules.
So you've got, we've got chemical ecology, and that describes interactions kind of at one level,
like that's between organisms, mediating each other's, you know, mediating their interactions
with, with, with molecular means as we discussed. But you've also got all these other levels, you've
also, I mean, in terms of ecology, in terms of context specificity, you've got everything from,
from, you know, protein folding right at the bottom to protein protein or just, you know,
molecular interactions, not necessarily proteins, but often proteins, protein-protein interactions,
which take place in a certain ecology of the molecules themselves, you know,
molecules need to encounter appropriate interaction partners to have activities
at all and to have selectable functions. And then you've got, you get into cell-cell interactions.
And so those can be within the bodies of organisms, so the ecology of the organism itself,
or the internal ecology of the organism, the cellular ecology there. And then you've got,
you know, organism as ecosystem in an extended manner with, with the holobion, so you can bring
the symbiotic story in, and all of these other, you know, non, in our case, non-human cells that
are contributing their molecules, their, their chemicals to our internal molecular economy or
ecology. And then you've got organism-organism, like whole organism, whole organism interactions.
So you're at the traditional level of chemical ecology then, but you've already built up
three or four levels before you get to that. And then, of course, you've got really fascinating
things like the way cultures can set contexts for the usage of drugs and have a huge impact on
the effect that drugs have. So even getting into sort of leery's set and setting, but, you know,
mindset, but also cultural context has a big impact on, on, you know, what a drug ends up doing,
for somebody. And that can actually take you into, I know you like to quote Fabrizio Benedetti,
and, you know, drugs and words having the same mechanisms of action. You can get into the way
that the words or the narrative surrounding a particular drug actually have a very significant
effect on, on, on what it does to, what it does to people. And that, that takes us into discussion
of addiction and all sorts of things, you know, relationship between, you know, stigmatization
of a certain subject and the likelihood that people develop unhealthy relationships with it
and all of that sort of thing. I think, you know, for the, for the, if we're doing the, the, the,
the multiple paper outline that we originally had, if we nested in this multi-layered, you know,
introduce that initially, and then focus on chemical ecology in that first paper, and then we can
discuss other levels and, you know, some of your interests in neuropharmacology and, and, you know,
drug-assisted psychotherapy and that sort of stuff a little bit later on. But the other thing we
were going to discuss in the middle is the origins of novelty. And that's another area that these
things dovetail in really interesting ways because, well, we can, we can get into it, but there are
similarities between the way an organism discovers and appropriates a molecular tool and actually
changes, again, balances of relationships change, but actual functions change. There's a form of
exaptation going on there in which, you know, a molecule which has a particular selective history
for a particular function is appropriated for some other function in the life history of a
completely different organism. But there are, there are, because of the, the connection with
exaptation, but also lots of other fun things, which we can connect maybe to xenobots and
anthropots if you want to go there. There are similarities between that change of context
being related to a change of activity and function with origins of novelty at the molecular level
in general and maybe again even the origins of novelty in terms of things like the xenobots.
Yeah, fantastic. I love that outline. It just occurred to me as you were saying and I wonder,
I wonder if we could get the, the bots to appropriate some toxins from something else,
right? Could we, could we, could we, you know, would they, would they take some of this stuff?
Interesting. Another, you know, another, another concept that we've been playing with more recently
is this idea of agential interventions. So this notion that there has to be a kind of
impedance match between the tool you're using and the complexity of what you're trying to change.
So if you really want to hit these high level kinds of system, the decisions that the physiological
networks make and so on, that maybe what you want is something also that's a little bit complex
and context sensitive. So we've been looking at, you know, anthropots as, as, as treatments and
because, you know, in the theory that they, they, they share a lot of priors with the bot itself,
they have the ability to do complex things that individual molecules may not be able to do.
And, and they, you know, they come with all these sensors and amplification machinery and all this
other stuff. So that's, that also I think is something that we can talk about is all in all
of the different examples that you show how much basically to look at it from the perspective
of the different elements of the system, including the compounds and asking what does the, you know,
what, what does the world look like if you're the, and, and, and what are you able to do, right?
Do you, you know, how much, you know, how much action are you able to, you know, to do by yourself?
Yeah. Well, when I was out, when I think of this multi-level ecology, which I sort of very briefly
outlined then, I am thinking about, you know, something we also talked about, you know, a couple
of years ago now, I suppose, and we talked very briefly, I had a chat with Maxwell Ramsted about
it, and we briefly, there was an email exchange with Carl, is that at each of these levels,
we're speaking, when we're speaking of ecology, we're speaking of this context-specific
interactions, there is a, there is a potentially a free energy principle account of what's going on
at each of those levels that can then be, that can then be built up. And I think that would be a
really potentially, it's probably a separate thing from the papers that we're talking about.
But it might be something that we can gesture towards in, in those papers, and then maybe,
you know, bring those guys in if they're still interested and, and do a more detailed account
of it. Yeah, so one of the things that I want to have a quick chat about, which this origins of
novelty discussion, because we had it a couple of times via email, but in terms of the Xenobots or
anthropons, and your, your notion that they are, they're essentially escaping from the constraints
of, of the, you know, of the cellular networks that they're normally involved in when they're
becoming a normal skin cell. And they're, they're liberated from those constraint functions. And
so suddenly they are, they have the capacity to, to embody a phenotype, which is never
before seen in the history of evolution. And I think that they're, they're a really vivid
example of that. But I actually think that that's kind of a generic process in the sense that, you
know, we have these models in, you know, so in organism, in organismal evolution, we have
escape and radios. And in molecular evolution, we have escape from adaptive conflict. And there
are ways that these, I mean, obviously, they sound very similar, but they are very similar,
although these analogies haven't been made all that much, I've made them a bit. But,
so, you know, escape and radiate very briefly is, you know, an organism in the environment that
it's involved in, that it has a long history of selection in is involved in all of these
different interactions. And it's occupying a fairly, you know, a defined niche base. And then
when the, when the environment changes, so when its context changes, all of its contextual
constraint changes, well, obviously, if the environment changes too much, or if it's niche
base is too narrow, if it's too specialized, it might just die, right? If everything changes too
dramatically. But we do see these cases often and invasive species just happen to be a really good
model system for this. When you take, say, a toad out of a context where it's got a bunch of, you
know, evolved interactions with, say, predators that have toxin resistance, all of that kind of
stuff, and you take them to a new place, all of the constraint functions have changed, and there
aren't so many predators that can eat them, etc. They can radiate, right? That lineage is suddenly
has a reduction of constraint pressure on it and is able to diversify more rapidly.
And that's, again, a very brief and not very articulate way of talking about escape and radiate
