a massive amount to talk about. But the basic outline is or was that we'd have these three
papers and the first one I think is really focused on integrating a lot of what you're doing with
you know morphoceuticals, electroceuticals, somatic psychiatry, multi-scale competence
architecture, all this fantastic work that you've been doing with chemical ecology,
broadly speaking. And my you know real area of specialization is even toxinology, so is in
the study of animal toxins and particularly venomous organisms. But there are of course a lot
of resonances between what you have been doing and just chemical ecology more broadly, not just
toxins. And so one of the things that I actually teach is a pharmacology subject,
it's sort of on the human relationship with drugs. But I take it all the way from
chemical ecology basically, and then to the way that organisms find molecular tools in their
environment, including in processes like toxin sequestration, but also various symbiotic processes.
And there's if we can talk about morphogenesis perhaps in a minute, because there's there are
all these fascinating examples of chemically, well chemically mediated morphogenesis of course,
but between organisms, right. So the involvement of say symbiotic microbes in morphogenesis,
that's seemingly really, really common for marine invertebrates in the in the larval transition
from a pelagic phase. So when they just you know, floating around on currents to the benthic phase,
where they become attached to a surface, it's very, very common for some symbiotic bacteria
to be involved in that transition. And there's a lot of a lot of work on attempting to
to identify the relevant molecules that are involved there.
Well, that's that's super cool. And I think I think some some sort of low hanging fruit there
is is a is a paper on that, particularly in the context of the the kind of synthetic morphology
idea, right, that, that, you know, nature hacks each other itself all the time in every direction,
and that we as engineers should be doing that too. I mean, I've been getting into plant gulls,
and it's, you know, these these amazing ways that that life takes advantage of the competencies of
the things around it. And so I think I think just that I mean, I'd love to I actually I would
just love to hear you talk about the stuff because I don't know all of these examples.
Yeah, I think would be amazing. Yeah, gulls are another really cool example. And I've seen you
talk about them. And, you know, as you as you know, right, gulls are in another incredibly
widespread thing, you know, it's not just that there are these sinipid wasps that inflict gulls.
I mean, there's a whole fun fascinating thing with just with those wasps, though, where you've
got the so-called iniquiline species, which are they are essentially hyper parasites, in a sense,
they don't make gulls themselves. But they steal gulls or appropriate the gulls of other species.
So there's all of that there's all of that cool stuff going on. But then, you know, you've got
aphids that make gulls and beetles that make gulls. And I think there's estimated to be tens of maybe
even over 100,000 species of insect that are involved in gull formation. And then there's
there are fungi that induce gulls and all sorts of stuff. So there's, again, a very what turn what
initially looks to be really kind of exotic in a certain sense, which is one organism influencing
the morphogenesis of another through some chemical mediator turns out to be a very, very common process.
And that's another thing with venom, you know, we're not necessarily talking about morphogenesis
there, although there can be very subtle things going on like the influence of the immune system
and that sort of thing. You know, venom is not necessarily all just about killing.
Although people differ in their in their definition of venom as well. But toxins are
certainly not necessarily all about killing. But again, we tend to think, oh, you know,
venom is this exotic thing. And I've got these snakes and scorpions and spiders and whatever
come to mind when people think of venomous organisms. And there this very particular
thing going on. But again, there's probably over 200,000, maybe more venomous organisms in the world.
Venom has evolved over 100 times independently. And it's just a particularly
specialized form of chemical ecology. And that's just ubiquitous, right? So organisms
mediating their interactions with other organisms through chemical means is just,
you know, just a thing that organisms do in general. And then we get these really cool,
specific examples of it. And so when I when I teach the human relationship with drugs
pharmacology students here at the University of Melbourne, I try to initially demonstrate to
them that pharmacology is really, you know, could be thought of as a subset of biology,
they don't get any biology necessarily really in the pharmacology stream, or they don't get an
integration of pharmacology with biology, which always is kind of mind boggling to me.
But so I just start from basic principles of chemical ecology, organisms mediating
interactions with each other, you know, in cooperative ways, sometimes, of course,
in antagonistic ways, when we're talking about toxins. And also one of the really fascinating
things is the way relationships can so readily flip the valences of relationships can flip from,
say, you know, commensals become parasites, or, you know, commensals become mutualists,
or sometimes parasites become mutualists, all of these sorts of fun things where a certain shift
in the context of the relationship, we might say a shift in the reference frames of the relationship
actually, you know, has this has this profound shift in its valence. But, you know, I go from
I go from some of these examples to speaking of the chemical ecology of the human basically,
and just saying that pharmacology is essentially a, you know, it's, you know, humans do things in
refined and specialized ways. But it's really something that, you know, organisms do in general,
which is search out useful molecular tools in their environment, and appropriate them,
and just vivid examples that I use are things like toxin sequestration. So, you know, one organism
appropriating the defensive toxins of another organism is the most common way this happens
for their own defense. And I'm wearing this, you know, chemical ecology t-shirt, and the molecule
here is the backbone of a cardiac glycoside, and it's just an interesting molecule because
it's one of these things that's often involved or is involved in a number of different, you know,
cool examples of toxin sequestration. So like wanderer butterflies, the caterpillars feed on
milkweed, and they take these cardiac glycosides that the plant produces, and they sequester them
in their own tissues. And then the butterfly, which of course only feeds on nectar, but retains
these stored toxins, and then is itself a toxic butterfly. But then in completely different
sets of interactions, like we've got poisonous toads, which have been a major issue here in
Australia, of course, since they were introduced, the cane toad here. Most of our frog eating critters
here in Australia are toad naive, because we don't have native toads. So they are sensitive to
these cardiac glycoside toxins that the toads make. But elsewhere in the world where there are
specialist snakes that feed on toads, you get these things like tiger keelbacks, which have
specialized glands in their neck called neutral glands, and they feed on the toads, and they
actually sequester the toad toxins into these specialized defensive glands, and then they have
bright orange and black bands on their necks, aqueosomatic coloration to warn of the toxicity
that they've basically stolen from their environment. So there's all those kinds of things.
And then some of these examples of influence of chemical ecology or symbiosis on morphogenesis
in these transitions is sort of from pelagic to benthic for marine invertebrates. That's again
observed in like a long list of different taxa, sponges, primoflagellates, acidians, worms.
So it seems like another common thing, arthropods or barnacles that I think this is involved with.
And in some cases, it seems like there's a direct appropriation in the sense that the
bacteria are being preyed upon. And then something that the bacteria is producing is being appropriated
as part of that process of predation. So in these coanoflagellates that have both single-celled
and multicellular life stages. And I don't think they're even obligatory in terms of their transition
to multicellular. So they can actually live out their lives and reproduce as single-celled organisms.
But there's this rosette inducing factor that certain bacteria produce and the coanoflagellates
feed on these bacteria. And then as a result of that and getting this RIF1, they end up forming
these rosette-like colonies of multicellular colonies. So you get this. So that's been studied
as a potential model system for the origins of multicellularity in some sort of symbiotic
interaction. And in a number of cases, there are sponges which get
key molecules that they can't make themselves from bacteria that they're symbiotic with.
And then they maybe digest them at some point in the process. Initially, they're living with them
once they've got enough of whatever it is they need, they digest them. But we know that this has
been a really important process in the origin of eukaryotic cells and things as well. So you can
see how some of these sorts of interactions, we've got predation and you've got full phagocytosis
and then actual digestion and breakdown that we believe. Lin-Margulis sort of gave us that idea
which we, of course, understand to be true, that this has been an incredibly important
process in the origin of complex life and eukaryotic cells. So it's just a fascinating example
of influences on morphogenesis and on these other major evolutionary transitions.
Yeah, amazing. Does anybody use these bacteria as a vector to manipulate,
scientists? I mean, to manipulate. We had a story about some commensal bacteria in our
plant area that if you mess with the relative proportions of the species, you get worms with
two heads with different visual systems, you get all sorts of stuff. It seems like that might
be a cool vector for implementing some of these changes. Yeah, I'm not aware of any work like
that. That's a really incredible example though. And was that something that you just sort of
was an accident initially? You weren't culturing those bacteria? The bacteria are hard to culture.
This was some work with Ben Wolf, who's a microbiologist in our department, and it started
by just asking the question of what kind of microbiome lives on these guys and we identified
a few major types. And then we just said, okay, what happens if you over-represent
some of them in one particular kind that just made all these changes in the plant area that
was harvesting them? Yeah, no, that's it. That's incredible stuff. Yeah, I'm not aware of any work
of that kind, but we could definitely delve into literature and see if we can find anything that's
similar. I mean, my understanding is that we don't necessarily know in a lot of cases, again, what
are the actual functional molecules that are involved? A lot of these have been difficult
systems to study in the lab. So most of what we know is, again, based on just culturing,
just basic studies of the microbiome of these organisms, and there is this
identification of an obligate relationship, but not necessarily what molecules are involved.
And similarly with the Gauls, as you know, there are lots of ideas about what's actually going
on there and some really, really fascinating stuff. It's essentially, in some cases, at least,
there's the induction of meristem tissue, like transition of leaf tissue into meristem tissue,
which is basically stem cells, right? So it's pluripotent tissue that can
take on various different configurations, but kind of similar things that are going on when
the plant is engaged in either fruit formation or flower formation, or the formation of basically
of reproductive organs. So in some cases, you've got invertebrates, which are expressing things
which look a lot like plant hormones, and they look a lot like plant reproductive hormones.
But then in other cases, it looks like, and maybe these are perhaps the same process
viewed at different timescales or at different stages of evolution, but there is at least one
in an eighth, is it in an eighth or under wasp? Sorry. They have shown that, well, they believe
that it's a wasp, actually. It's a hormone that's involved in ovum formation within the wasp
lineage itself, right? So it's a repurposed, obviously similar enough to whatever is what the
plant hormones, these wasp hormones, they can induce a similar effect with a few different,
a few small modifications. And I mean, that's what we see all the time with toxins, which are
again, more my area of specialization, is that you get what I call an endophysiologically active
molecule, something that's got some key regulatory function in the body of the organism that produces
it, but it has a particular kind of activity that can readily be repurposed as a toxin.
So like a really straightforward example is a coagulation factor. So certain snakes have
directly recruited coagulation factors into their venom, modified them a little bit.
And then so now they're kind of like hyper coagulation factors. And when they inject them
into target organisms, it just starts popping the blood and chewing up the organism's endogenous
coagulation factors at a very increased rate. But something similar probably going on basically
is what I'm saying with the Gauls in the sense that you've got something that's involved in the
induction of specific forms of tissue or in morphogenetic processes in the producing organism,
and then it's repurposed to do something very similar in the target organism.
Yeah. Are you aware of any, is there any overlap between the examples that you gave the kind of
developmental control and compounds that are known to be psychoactive? Is there any intersection there?
Not to my knowledge yet. It's a really interesting question, though. And maybe you'd be specifically
thinking of things that are sort of plastogenic, so neuroplastogens. For example, in plastogens,
just a lot of our work has been around treating the development of morphogenesis more broadly as
the behavior of a collective intelligence and morphosomes. And once you view it as behavior,
you can start to use all the tools from neuroscience. And so we've done all kinds of things, but one of
the things that I really would like to do, and we're still, we don't have the reagents yet because
a lot of these are scheduled substances. But I would like to, I want the collective
intelligence to hallucinate. And so we've tried SSRIs and quite interesting, actually,
serotonergic modulators. We've done some other drugs that aren't scheduled that are kind of a
little bit in that category. It's pretty cool. I mean, I've seen embryos that aren't quite sure
what species they're supposed to be, and they make some things that belong to an entirely different
species and things like that. And we haven't even gotten to the good stuff, really, great. We don't
have any. Yeah. So are you seeking approval to work with some of the more tightly controlled
substances? I haven't started the process yet. I need to figure out exactly what that entails,
and how much of that we're actually able to do. But I wonder, I mean, and another thing I'd love
to hear you talk about is this issue of like, isn't it amazing that it's always struck me as
interesting, and maybe you can say a little bit about it, how life forms that are very
split off from us a really long time ago. So, you know, like, like, you know,
matting mushrooms, you know, and things like this, that they just, they happen to have these
molecules that are a very nice fit into some receptors in a vertebrate brain, and they don't
kill you, but they do make, like, what's up with that? Why is it that these fungi have
such a subtle effect on an animal that didn't exist for the longest time?
Yeah, it's a really fascinating question. And I mean, I think the broader question about the
prevalence of psychoactive molecules in plants and fungi in particular, it's still a little bit
mysterious on one level. Like, in many cases, we just don't know what these molecules do in the
plants or fungi's normal ecology, or whether they have regulatory functions in, in, you know, again,
in the, in the molecular economy of the organisms that produce them, or they are specialized, I
say exochemicals, right, they have an exo like outside special function that's directed outside.
I mean, a lot of them might make sense. And not everybody likes this just connection,
and it may trivialize them in some sense, but as toxins, in the sense that they might serve to,
you know, disorient or confuse or, you know, a toxin, again, doesn't necessarily, it's just
a chemical that's mediating an antagonistic interaction. It doesn't necessarily have to kill,
or even make sick, it just could be a deterrent. And so it is possible that some of these molecules
are just, you know, deterrents for certain kinds of potential predators. And I mean,
there are obvious examples not necessarily psychoactive, but something like capsaicin and chilies,
which is specifically a deterrent for mammals, because they have, you know, these tripthe 1
pain receptors in their, in their mouths, whereas birds don't have them. So birds are,
you know, so the hypothesis goes, birds are better dispersers for chili for the fruit and the seeds.
Mammals on the other hand, like maybe destroy whole plants and just aren't good dispersers
for chilies. So they specifically are a defensive toxin for mammals. But weird things happen,
right? When a certain, you know, mammal, a certain naked ape decides that they enjoy a little bit
of pain and starts to cultivate chilies. And you get this, this is the kind of flipping of the
valence of a, you know, chemical ecological interaction from something that's antagonistic.
So a defensive toxin becomes now a target molecule that humans are cultivating and now
chilies are all over the, all over the planet. You know, so it turns out that this positive
relationship with a particular mammal has, has been very good for the evolutionary history of
