that they believed to actually be the case.
In fact, she sent me stuff on it.
She did?
Great.
Well, then you can pull that up, and we'll put it on the episode notes.
I have no chance to review it for legitimacy, I'm just saying someone else at least put
that idea forward.
I've noticed that as well, but I don't have any hard data.
Fair enough.
I'll see if the data I have is hard.
Okay.
Anish also looked into the case of the family that was going to be evicted from their home
by the HOA.
Yeah.
I contributed to their legal defense fund a ways back when they ran that, so I had the
email address of the guy who coordinated it, and I asked him how that was going.
He said they are still in legal proceedings that they had to counter file a federal claim
in order to fight this, and it's kind of stressful for them all, but they are still in that house.
They haven't been evicted yet, and so they'll see what happens pending the court case.
I would like to write their prediction that, you know, bad for kids isn't a Polly family,
but it's having people in the yard screaming, get out of our neighborhood.
Actually, there aren't any people in their yard.
Oh, that's good.
They're nice.
I think that they...
Why are they pushing them out?
It's precedent.
Oh.
Yeah, I know.
You know, it's bad for kids, stupid precedence.
I'm going to say that.
Hi, Fib.
Hi.
I imagine that someone's going to give up at some point.
Okay, so moving on back, moving on back, are you guys ready to move on back to the episode
8, where we interviewed Brian Dunning.
Dunning.
With regards to conspiracy theories, commenter Adam spelled 4-T-0-M.
Adam.
He or she?
They.
Thank you.
Paraphrasing what Adam said here, they remarked that in Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality,
Harry reflects on the nature of a perfect crime, and once his mind stops completing the pattern
of there's no such thing as a perfect crime, he realized perfect crimes probably happen
all the time, but you never hear about them because they were executed perfectly.
And to that effect, conspiracies may well plausibly happen all the time without us necessarily
being aware of them, if it was a good conspiracy.
But if someone commits a perfect crime and doesn't get caught, that's a great thing to talk about
on their deathbed, right?
And that's how you know about perfect crimes.
Perfect crimes, even.
I mean, maybe.
Maybe not.
They might die unexpectedly.
They might.
I'm just saying that the only perfect crimes they're the ones that never ever get discovered
is faulty.
Sure.
I mean, I would have all kinds of reasons to hide a perfect crime that I did, not wanting
to tarnish my reputation, or say if I stole two million dollars, I wouldn't want that taken
and seized from my family afterwards or something, but the only thing with regards to conspiracies
is-
Same with conspiracies.
Well, so the thing with my thought when I think about conspiracy theories, so the moon landing
was a hoax, that would require tens of thousands of people to be in on it.
That's not gonna happen.
If that really good perfect crimes have a small group, if it's not just maybe one person,
exactly, right?
One person can keep a secret really well.
Steven, I'm finding that in this recording, and that's gonna be your ringtone.
The moon landing was a hoax.
Oh, shit.
Every time.
There it is.
Yeah.
So this is probably the whole mistaken attribution, because all quotes end up being quoted as either
Benjamin Franklin or Abraham Lincoln.
But there is a famous quote that three people can keep a secret as long as two of them are
dead.
Ooh, bum bum bum.
That reminds me of the Muppets.
What is it, the pirates?
Treasure Island?
The Muppets Treasure Island?
I never saw it.
I didn't grow up on Sesame Street either.
Or are the Muppets different things?
The Muppets are different.
Seriously?
Oh, yeah.
Slightly different.
I mean, they both had Kermit.
It's a different friends.
There's a crossover from both of them?
Yes.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, the Muppets are much more of an adult-aimed show.
We are going terribly off track here, but for lovers of Muppet Treasure Islands, you
probably remember when the pirate buries gold and then kills everybody else who was involved
in burying gold, because that's what pirates do.
That's how you keep it secret.
I agree that a good conspiracy would be one that no one ever found out about, and so that
could be some mild evidence in favor, or some reason to update in favor of there might be
conspiracies that we just don't know about.
That's all it's going to do for us.
It's not evidence in favor of any particular conspiracy theory claim.
Right.
The fact that we can all tacitly agree that conspiracies are probably real doesn't lend at all credence
to the Bushed 9-11 conspiracy.
I love how Adam ends this.
He says, if you accept this reasoning, yes?
They.
They say that if you accept this reasoning, then the thing that should be your criteria for
conspiracy is not how believable or likely the conspiracy is, but how accurately it predicts
the future.
And I think that is a great line, because as Eliezer has said before, all beliefs should
pay rent.
If your belief has no applicable use in the real world, evict it, because it is just wasting
your brain space.
So if you approach the world with this conspiracy in mind and make predictions and those are
more accurate than predictions you would make if the conspiracy did not exist, then that
is a useful belief to have.
And I would like to see someone make these sort of predictions beforehand and then test
them out afterwards, because I have yet to see a conspiracy belief that has no evidence
behind it make more accurate predictions than one that does not include conspiracy in it.
And then a conspiracy theory come out to be confirmed true.
Right.
It is like, was it Laplace?
It was Napoleon's mathematician.
I forget exactly who it was.
I think it was Laplace.
I think it was Laplace too.
Yeah.
When he presented his mathematical model of the solar system to Napoleon, Napoleon said,
well, this is great, but where in your theory is God?
And Laplace replied, I have no need for that hypothesis, which a brilliant singer, but
it can also a great way to treat conspiracy theories.
It all works great without it.
Yeah.
I think one conspiracy theory that allegedly I haven't looked into this that much was in
popular discourse before it was confirmed true was MKUltra, you know, Dragging Soldiers
with LSD and stuff.
Yeah.
That said, I don't have a good source for that.
Actually, we have three relations to this episode with Brian Dunning.
He was on an episode of the Joe Rogan Experience podcast, which is, I think it's just past
its 800th episode and they do a few a week.
It's a big thing.
Joe Rogan made Brian Dunning's list of the top 10 most harmful celebrities.
Wow.
Because Joe Rogan puts out whatever conspiracy theory he wants all the time and he's got
a huge audience.
And Dunning argues that if you have a big audience, you have a responsibility to do your homework
before putting stuff out there.
And that's why Oprah made the top of the list.
So it was the 10 celebrities promoting the most harmful pseudoscience or something.
Anyway, so they talked about that quite a bit and MKUltra was the only one that Rogan
was around before it was actually out there.
Anyway, fun episode.
They go in circles for about 90 minutes.
It was actually kind of annoying.
But if you want to see a clash of worlds, it was good.
Adam goes on to make a point that they feel that people who are on the fringes and are
willing to believe conspiracy theories and woo science are actually those who are best
to convert to rationality because they spend more time thinking about their crazy beliefs
than the average person does.
So the first step to getting them to look at rationality is to first be the group of
people who will take every idea seriously and really run it through our rationalist
filter and not patronize or dismiss them out of hand those things that we think are ridiculous.
I have mixed feelings about that's the end of quote.
I have mixed feelings about that sentiment.
I feel like I propensity to believe crazy things doesn't necessarily mean that you're predisposed
towards great rational thinking.
It does mean that you spend a lot of time thinking about stuff.
So that part's true.
I think the fact, I kind of agree with him.
I think the fact that these people are willing to entertain ideas that are socially unpopular
and really think through their consequences makes them an ideal group because a lot of
people will hear some things like, you know, we think you should freeze your body after
you die and just be like, oh, these people are crazy and they don't believe in God.
They're obviously heathens and we don't want to have anything to do with them.
And the people who are more willing, who are used to being mocked by the mainstream and
are willing to state their opinions anyway are much more likely to be the kind who are
willing to listen to rationalist ideas.
And I think we could have the most impact on them because they would be the most likely
to both listen and possibly come around if they see these tools being useful and implementing
them in their own lives.
That's possible.
I think that there's a propensity to disregard country evidence that's way higher in the
conspiracy theory community than a healthy rationalist would endorse.
That said, it's food for thought.
We appreciate the comment.
Don't stop commenting.
Adam, we appreciate it.
And I do like that quote pointed out that one of our strengths as rationalists is that
we do take all ideas seriously no matter how silly they seem at first.
Speaking of taking all sorts of different ideas seriously, do you want to move on to the
next episode, Kill All Humans?
That was a brilliant transition.
