know, even, even the people who make $6 an hour take for granted.
Having a place to, you know, more or less to live, having access to drinking water, having,
you know, not constantly starving.
Those are things that some people on earth actually deal with.
Okay.
So maybe for right now, maybe for right now we can make the argument that it costs less
to be suffering in the world than it costs to increase good happiness.
I don't know, whatever.
Although I really think that they're kind of the same thing.
I think you also decreasing suffering, you're increasing happiness, but I think you also
made a good point when you brought up the internet, because in addition to increasing
happiness, the internet has been a huge engine for increasing wealth.
Yes.
So it's, it didn't cost anything to make the internet.
Maybe it provided a lot more money than it ever costs.
So increasing happiness can also be a net positive rather than a cost.
Right.
And there also might be a point at which decreasing suffering is much more difficult and more
costly.
Yeah.
And those two things are reversed.
But again, I don't think that we can really make a judgment.
Yeah.
The three of us can make a judgment on which is more costly or less costly.
Aside from specific things.
Well, also we're supposed to work rather than looking at a specific thing.
We have to look for a bunch of specific things and then we have to write a paper about it,
Steven.
Well, so Adam's point was.
We have to have the episode on effective altruism, Steven.
We will.
But I will just say that Adam's point was as long as we're trying to keep things as
still manned as possible, it seems like policies intended to create or to increase happiness
cost a lot and have decreasing success.
Whereas reducing suffering doesn't involve the same sort of arms race against human expectation.
I think that that point remains sound.
Yeah.
I do think that decreasing suffering is increasing happiness.
I think that those are basically the same thing.
But policies directed towards increasing happiness are going to be less or are probably less
successful than policies directed towards alleviating suffering.
I think that that might have some merit to it.
I think that's a fair point.
Want to talk about cryonics?
Let's do it.
Okay.
So episode six, that's when we talked about cryonics.
And I am still cryocrocinating if you want an update on that.
But I also discovered something really sad about Europe.
Oh, yeah.
That Aniyash just told me.
So now he's going to tell all of you.
Some European.
Okay.
I don't remember who exactly it was.
Harsises.
Harsises.
Yeah.
That's right.
Harsises asked us if we know any good places to read about different life insurance options.
They live in Europe, at least for now.
And they understand that Rudy works only with US customers.
Question mark?
Yes.
Rudy only works with US customers.
People in Europe have much more greater difficulty accessing cryonics.
In some countries, it's actually illegal.
In most countries in Europe, it's illegal to fund cryonics through life insurance.
Because then it's viewed as some sort of scam.
I know in Russia, you can get cryonics.
As opposed when it comes to individual countries looking to your local laws,
but you may be out of luck, at least for now, until you get some laws passed.
Because I know there are a few countries where it's actually illegal.
And I would be willing to bet that Rudy Hoffman would be a better resource than any of us about any legal questions,
even outside the US who might have resources to direct you towards.
I noticed that Rudy Hoffman was no longer linked, and somebody else had been linked.
Which of you guys changed that?
Not me.
It was definitely on there when I put it on there.
I mean, I may have changed it on accident.
Oh.
Is he not linked anymore?
No.
Oh, well, okay.
I will go back and re-link him then.
Well, make sure that you're linked to somebody who works in the US.
Or it's Google Rudy Hoffman.
Or it's Google Rudy Hoffman.
It smelled like it sounds.
Okay.
Let's see.
Probably doesn't help anyone who's not a native English speaker.
Right.
It smelled like it sounds.
Good luck.
Go to the website.
Oh my gosh.
So this is a question about cryonics that has actually crossed my mind,
because I'm still on my driver's license, an organ donor, commenter JJ.
My one uninformed qualm is that if people get really into cryonics,
the number of organ donors in the world would decrease.
I'm not sure about this actually.
I should probably ask someone at the cryonics institute or somewhere if they would even
have time to take an organ from me before they put me under,
before they put me full of crowd protecting.
I sort of doubt it.
Unless,
In C.I.
For the cryonics institute, you cannot donate organs because they only do full body preservation.
Alcor, possibly, because they allowed just head preservation.
If you go with Alcor, I don't know what their policy is.
I think in absolute terms, the answer to this question is yes,
they probably would reduce the number of organ donors slightly.
If everyone was signed up, it wouldn't really have much of an impact though,
because generally if you die in an expected way in a hospital,
your organs aren't really usable anymore.
Maybe a few of them, but usually people who go into cryo are people at the end of their life
who die of old age and their organs aren't worth shit.
Now.
Currently.
Yes, currently.
The people whose organs are used are often traumatic accidents at the prime of their life.
Motorcycle accidents are a really big one.
If you die in a way that your organs can be harvested and given to other people,
you generally are not a good candidate for cryonics.
You've died in some way that was usually messy,
and there's probably won't be much of you left.
What's the medical term for head smash?
Yeah.
So I mean, a good crowd patient doesn't suffer from terminal head smash,
and those are people who are great at donating organs.
Exactly.
And most people who are dying of cancer generally you cannot donate their organs
because cancer has spread at that point if they're dying of it to a lot of different places in the body.
Related to that question, somebody named Patrick wrote,
you didn't really discuss the ethical consequences of spending a substantial amount of money on cryonics.
As most rationalists, I consider myself a consequentialist and I try to live as an effective altruist.
So for the question, if I should sign up for cryonics,
the main issue isn't whether I can afford cryonics,
but rather if I can justify spending 100k on a single digit probability that I might survive.
I could donate this money to AMF, against malaria, foundation by the way,
and save 50 children from dying from malaria.
Investing in the help of extremely poor people today has a very high return of investment.
I find it unlikely that I would be able to achieve more good by signing up for cryonics
than donating this money to the most effective charities.
What say you?
I have a very strong opinion on this.
I want to just take a quick pick with the way that Patrick phrased this,
save 50 kids the 100k, that charity sounds like shit.
And that is not the against malaria foundation,
they can save way more than 50 kids with $100,000.
No, I think the most recent estimate was $4,000 or so per child saved.
Per malaria?
No, not for malaria, per child saved.
It's not just the cost of malaria net,
there's the cost of getting them over, of running the organization and so forth,
and comes out to about $4,000 per child.
Sorry Patrick, my bad, I might cut that.
No, you need to stay on here apologizing.
That works.
Okay, cool.
We just updated.
We just updated, it's a good thing.
That's right, if someone else had the same qualm that I did, now they know better.
I can't believe it's $4,000 a life.
Yeah.
How, Peter Singer wrote an essay in the 70s called,
Maybe only 2,000 a life, I don't remember exactly,
but it's definitely in the more than 1,000 category.
Maybe that's how long it takes them to guide them all the way from babyhood through like,
tons of nets.
You don't just throw one net at someone and save their life.
What do you do from mosquitoes, from malaria?
One that will not save their life for their entire life.
They need more than a single net to keep themselves going.
And like, one net wouldn't even last for a year.
We need a malaria vaccine like now, like yesterday.
Oh yeah.
Jesus.
And you know, nets tear, nets are sometimes used for fishing or other things.
That's true.
Yeah, that's a big problem.
I only brought up Peter Singer's thing because he mentions that a,
like a pack of oral dehydration salts in the 70s cost like a nickel,
and that could cure a lethal case of diarrhea.
In parts of the world where you could still die from dehydration from diarrhea.
So in that sense, a nickel literally saves a life.
Yes, but you cannot literally just throw a nickel and have someone get a dehydration salt in their mouth.
That's true.
There's costs of transportation and yeah.
All right.
And distribution.
So I have strong opinions on this.
In the most basic utilitarian calculation, yes,
your one life is not worth more than 50 children's lives.
But I am of the opinion that people are allowed to prioritize their own existence over that of others.
And the existence of close loved ones over that of far off strangers.
I wrote this out in terms of straight utilitarian calculation.
That doesn't have much support.
There is some, but I'm not going to get into that.
