Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, this is Katrina Stanton, this is Inyash Brotsky, and
this is Stephen Zuber.
This week we are going to be addressing some feedback that we've gotten from people who
listened to our past episodes, all of our 10 past episodes.
So this might take a little while, hold on to your horses, and away we go!
This is going to be our listener feedback episode.
After this we're planning to do a little bit of feedback at the beginning or at the end
of every episode, so we don't have to have big listener feedback episodes every few
months.
Yeah, okay, so let's start with one of the most recent ones and move back from there.
We did two episodes on polyamory, and I'd like to address those quickly.
Eustis on Reddit wrote, Katrina seems to be searching around for a word that encapsulates
how polyamory allows you to explore relationships you may not otherwise have tried if you had
to be fully invested in them.
I might take a little bit of issue with that wording, but that's okay.
The term I use from economics is opportunity cost.
Bringing a new relationship while poly has a lower opportunity cost because your options
aren't near as limited.
And good point.
Thank you so much for that.
Wonderful term.
I take it you take exception to the fully invested part of that?
Yeah, but you know, nitpicking, that's for other times.
Well, we have a second, I think, I mean, just to steel man, I think what they're trying
to say, I think in that you can't give two people 100%, right?
Yeah, but you never give one person 100%.
Well, I guess you could theoretically, but you know, you have a life, right?
Or poop sometimes.
So however much you give to one person is then divided between two, three or four.
Maybe that's what they meant by fully.
So however much fully is divided by number of partners.
Yes, but other people, some people like different things in different ways.
Like I know me and Melissa have very different taste in music.
So sometimes I will go to concerts that is a type of music which I love with someone
else rather than with her because she would get a lower value out of that time and someone
else would get a higher value.
For sure.
No, I think that that's a fair and accurate and correct point that to say, I was just
trying to give the best benefit of the doubt to comment or use this.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
And our other commenter is going to be very difficult for me to say the Reddit name.
The Svevolat?
Your guess is as good as mine.
Oh, we should mention real quickly, these questions were taken from our webpage where
we have comments enabled on every single episode or on the, what is it, slash the Bayesian
conspiracy subreddit where we post a thread for every episode or just through email.
You can email us at the Bayesian, you know, at BayesianConspiracyPodcast at gmail.com.
Yes.
That latter one.
All right.
Anyway, Svevolat, still talking about the polyamory episodes that it would be very interesting
to hear you touch on the question of children in such relationships.
Now we didn't talk about that at all in the polyamory episodes.
I think two of us don't even ever want to have children.
One of us, I think, is leaning towards having a family at some point, which would be me.
So I wanted to address this very quickly without going into great detail because of course
it's a huge topic.
So here are my points.
People divorce and remarry and raise children during this process.
So we're already in a situation where lots of kids have mom, dad, mom's boyfriend, dad's
wife, you know.
So it actually, as far as stigma is concerned, that's a great out for kids kind of in their
teens.
They can just pretend like they have a broken, I'm sorry, that was a joke.
I don't actually think that those families are broken in any way.
I also would like to, oh wow, I also would like to point out that the modern nuclear
family of just two parents in their own home is a fairly recent invention.
People generally used to live with their older relatives, both to take care of the older
relatives and so the older relatives could watch children.
Exactly.
So parents are responding to the lack of cohabitating with extended families in various ways and
that could be co-housing, intentional communities where there's more adults involved in raising
kids and through poly households.
Now there hasn't been a ton of research on kids specifically in poly households, although
there has been research in communal raising and other forms.
So Elizabeth Sheff is actually the only, she's done the only research that I really know of.
That's Elizabeth and then Sheff is S-H-E-F-F.
I put up a link to her stuff on the episode 10 blog on our website.
Anyway, what she found is that kids in poly families are more articulate and thoughtful.
But caveats, like major caveats, the mainstream polyamorous communities in the US, Australia
and Europe are mostly white middle class, highly educated people.
Those kids already have huge advantages.
Also people who voluntarily enroll in studies about polyamorous families tend to at least
think that they got their shit together.
I can go at this at a more ancient, anthropological point of view.
There are a number of cultures in the Polynesian and Pacific Rim areas, as well also in Southern
America that would traditionally have multi-family or multi-adult families.
Often children have two fathers or possibly two mothers, but the two fathers was more
common.
They had a thing that was called paratol, no, partial paternity, God, I don't remember
the exact word now, or partial paternity.
Anyways, the idea was that a child could have literally more than one biological father.
Other men who had sex with the woman while she was pregnant, their genetic contribution
would be included as well.
And obviously they didn't use the word genetic contribution because they didn't have a concept
of genes.
But there were families that had multiple fathers and there was a time period where
these were studied because they were still around while anthropology was going on.
And it was found that the children who had multi-parent families did no worse than any
other children in their communities.
The only thing I would caveat there is that in these communities, in these antiquated
communities, they didn't actually have more than one biological father, they believed
they did.
Yes.
They were not like, hey, we thought it was the case so it was.
It also often had advantages of the children would have still multiple parents if one parent
happened to die.
And it was found that these children happened to die less often of violent means while they
were young.
Because apparently in these societies, you still sometimes died violently when you were
young.
Yeah, I mean, so the nice thing about having a bunch of adults is that there's more adults
to serve as role models, more attention, more adults providing rides to kids who can't
drive yet, education, all of that good stuff.
I've talked to a number of parents who think that two people really is not a lot of people
for watching children, especially if you have more than one.
And having that burden shared by more people would probably be a great boon to them.
Yeah, so people go about it in different ways.
There's so much more to get into there, like legal stuff, how kids feel about it.
They tend to not really care, but they like stability, of course.
So there's all sorts of other nuances to that question that is just way too much.
For parenting in general, for what it's worth, I think it was Gail's psychologist Paul Bloom
was doing some research, or quoted some research that I heard that it was, essentially kids
are going to turn out, how they're going to turn out, mostly irrespective of parenting
impact.
As long as you're not really screwing up, they're going to be fine.
That turned out to be not just his opinion, but what was found through some meta-study
data.
Tyler Cowan wrote a book about that.
Maybe that's what he was quoting.
This was a couple years ago that I heard something about this, but it was interesting.
One more comment on the polyamory episode.
I also want to point out that I think, if I am recalling correctly, that it has been
shown that generally children from single-parent families don't do as well as children from
two-parent families if they're being raised just by one person because one of the parents
is dead or ran off or something, they tend to have slightly worse outcomes.
But there has been a few studies shown that parents or children in families with more
than two parents don't do any worse than children in families with just two parents.
So if we're okay with children being raised in one-parent families, we should, I imagine,
be okay with children being raised in more than two-parent families since they do better
off than children in single-parent families, and yet we don't disallow those.
Did that make sense?
Yeah.
It makes sense to me.
If we're going to be consistent, and we're not going to draw arbitrary lines, that's right.
If we're doing it for the children, which I've always thought is a bullshit reason to
do things.
What if children ever done it for me?
Well, I just mean that for the children is used as a bludgeon all the time to stop adults
from doing anything adulty.
Hiding guy flags, the Bible, and children.
Yes.
Yeah.
Are you guys ready to...
Let's go on.
Keep on rolling.
Okay, so last comment about polyamory, the polyamory episode was from my husband.
He pointed out, and now I'm starting to quote, overcoming bias at all jumped on the polyband
wagon after I did.
The first result for polyamory I can find on less wrong or overcoming bias is a comment
on a November 2009 post, and we started dating in 2008.
I was even sort of okay with this idea when I was a conservative Christian, and he tells
everybody, you can update a tiny amount in favor of convergent ideas among a population
subset as being a potential reason for a higher percentage of polyidentified people in less
wrong, and a little bit away from founder effects.
Right on.
There were actually a couple more on polyamory.
Oops, my bad.
I forgot that we weren't skipping this one, but go ahead.
Well, Mark Plus, in a thread that went on for a while, made a point in the latter half
of it that in Silicon Valley there is a larger than average percentage of polyamorous people,
and it's also really freaking hard being a single guy trying to get a date in Silicon
Valley, and he thought the two were possibly related, and linked an article about that,
and the article itself said things along the lines of guys here are insanely focused
on their careers, and the male-female gender ratio is really imbalanced in Silicon Valley.
I don't want to get too far into it, but yes, Silicon Valley is in a uniquely bad position
if you're a single male.
You outnumber the women by a fair bit, not quite as bad as China, but getting there,
and everyone there mentions that the culture is very much about work, about working on
your startup, people are really passionate about their jobs there.
It's what they want to do with their lives, and so that's where they invest their time
and their money, and as a result, relationships tend to not get the investment that a lot
of people want from their partners.
So I think it is the case of Silicon Valley is bad for dating, and not that polyamory
is bad for Silicon Valley.
Yeah, you mentioned it might even be a response.
I did, because that, well, I don't want to get too much into that because it sort of
treats women as a commodity, but if the amount of relationships that women are in is greater
than the amount of relationships men are in, then it's actually helping the problem to
have polyamory rather than making it worse, and it does seem to be the case that women
reach polysaturation less quickly than men do.
I didn't know that one.
Yeah.
So polysaturation means that...
You have too many partners, and you can't even deal with it anymore.
That's mostly what I was going to say.
I don't know that to be the case at all.
Someone told me, anecdotal evidence at one of the last round meetups that that was something
