That deserves a high five.
Now, actually, I was wondering if you, I wasn't on that episode.
I'm dating Jason, who I care for deeply, but it also means, well, not necessarily, but
in this case, it means that I have pretty emotional reactions in the negative sense to
some of his ideas.
And it takes me a while to kind of get used to them and not have a seriously negative
emotional reaction to it.
To be fair, I had a pretty emotionally negative reaction to the proposition as well.
But I came up with a few points and I wondered if you would address them.
Sure.
I guess I'm the person who's getting feedback and commenting in this case.
Let's do it.
So first, I said this is a great example of the danger of general AI, right?
That it may not have the values that we want it to have.
Right.
If it's a pain minimizer, if it's pain and suffering minimizer, like Jason, or if Jason
is programming that AI, which he's not, by the way, don't go after him, people, then
that would be a completely horrible thing because it could potentially end in, in the
end.
I agree completely.
And also for the record, don't go after anyone.
No, please don't.
Ever, regardless of what they're working on.
That said though, Jason, I think would argue that that would be a good thing if the AI
misfired and killed everybody.
Well, yeah, he would.
Yeah.
That's why he isn't programming AI and he's not allowed to.
So it raises, if we want to say that the proposition is bad, then it's a good argument
against, or it's a good argument about friendly AI caution.
But if we're...
Oh, right.
In Jason's case, this is a good reason to put the pedal to the metal on AI research.
That's what I was trying to say.
Thank you.
Yes, exactly.
You're right.
The other thing is, I had a problem with his statement that pain and suffering of being
tortured approaches negative infinity.
And because that was his reason for saying that pain and suffering is literally the only
thing that should be considered and that matters.
And isn't it clear to everybody that pain and suffering is not negative infinity?
That in terms of people's feelings.
Nothing approaches infinity?
I don't think it is clear to everybody.
I think it's clear to me that's not how I do my thinking, but I've had too many conversations
with too many people to say that it's clear to everybody.
I mean, it's clearly not clear to everybody.
It's not clear to Jason because he used that argument.
But I don't know, back me up here.
People's emotions and feelings don't approach infinity.
Yeah.
In the case of a sacred value, when you say that torture is something that we can never
do and you have this instinctive emotional reaction to it, which is what we want to
encourage, because that is how deontology feels from the inside is this thing is a
sacred value and we can never transgress against it, then that is the way that is
expressed in utilitarian terms, that it is negative infinity.
If you want to have a deontological ethics system, which I believe we do want to have
something similar to that for humans anyway, since utilitarianism isn't safe for humans.
Have heart and drug.
Okay.
We should maybe go into some day whether utilitarian ethics is safe for humans.
But assuming that it's not and we are best off sticking to something like deontology,
then that is how that would be expressed, that torture approaches negative infinity,
even if that is not literally true.
Yeah.
All right.
And actually, I think my most important point is that organisms, generally the ones that
are alive, have a strong preference to remain alive, like a really strong preference in
most utilitarian systems, or I'm not sure about this in most, but in a lot of ethics
systems, you take the preference of entities into account.
Can I argue Jason's side?
Please do.
And not that I agree with this, but I understand where he's coming from, I think, which is
why I'm going to argue his side.
Okay.
And if I'm wrong, I hope Jason writes him to correct me.
I can try to correct you since he's argued this with me before.
Okay.
So one of the things is that people's preferences can possibly be wrong.
Someone may have a preference to keep living because it has been instilled through evolution,
even though their life on whole is a net negative and they are suffering a lot more than they
are having pleasure.
But why do somebody, why does somebody else get to make that choice for them?
Well, that's the same question as why do parents get to decide whether their children have
chemotherapy or not?
A child with leukemia may not want to get chemotherapy because it makes them sick and makes their
lives miserable, but the parents know better that this is a thing you go through so that
you're better off at the end.
Like vaccines.
Like vaccines.
Same thing.
Those hurt when you get them.
But analogously, parents will also control a child's diet because the child wants to
eat as much sugar as possible because in an intestinal environment, sugar will scarce
and connect it to good food.
Right.
Now it's in nutritional cereal.
But sugar makes people happy.
Completely disregarding the kid's opinion on chemotherapy or eating sweet things is also
not the way to go.
Right?
How much to update in paper what the kid wants?
I see what you're saying if you would try to explain it to the kid.
Yeah.
But if the kid doesn't understand?
Obviously you got to do what you got to do.
Okay.
That's the argument, right?
Yes.
But we have strong preferences for staying alive and living and experiencing things,
right?
I sure do, yeah.
I have strong preferences for eating things with sugar in them, which I am happy to fulfill.
It makes me happier.
I'm an adult and having somebody else who is equal to me, like I don't have a mom.
I do have a mom.
I'm sorry, mom.
I'm not a child anymore.
I don't have somebody who is, like, superior to me telling me what to do.
Well, you guys know what I mean.
Yes, we do.
So if, you know, somebody else, like, adjacent decides that he gets to decide for all other
humans that are just like him, that they get to die now, or all other organisms, then
that's not good.
I would fight against him, yeah.
This is one of these places where you just can't reason to each other about it.
It comes down to a conflict of terminal values and ultimately the only arbiter is Force.
If it comes down to it, it's maybe not worth driving into, but it was an interesting conversation
I had for about an hour today that the three of us have a strong incentive to live.
But as far as other organisms on the planet, maybe excluding dolphins, great apes, and
elephants, I was talking to somebody today who argued that they really don't care whether
they live or not.
Excuse me.
Let me clarify their position better, because that was my initial reaction, that they do
care.
They have an instinctive, so I said, well, they run from predators.
They go for food.
They clearly want to keep living.
And she said, yeah, but not in the reflective way that you and I think about, we go to bed
at night thinking, I sure hope I wake up tomorrow because I'm excited to keep living.
Your dog doesn't feel that way.
Yeah, but it's not just instinctive to try to keep living.
Your dog really does want to keep living, even if it's not talking to itself in bed and
thinking, boy, howdy.
I just have so many plans.
I hope that I don't snuff it tonight.
I think that actually is a qualitative difference.
I agree with the person Steven was talking to.
And I'm inclined to agree with Katrina, because I feel like their preference is that they
have something sort of like that, even if it's not like what we have.
Yeah, it might not be expressed in the same way, but it's awfully similar.
How many humans think, I sure do like being alive and hope that I continue to be alive?
I think existential dread is one of the things that it makes being a human being a human.
How do you know that non-human animals don't feel that?
I think that your understanding of the intelligence of non-humans is greatly lacking.
I would also just say that most humans don't go to bed thinking that, but if asked, they
would say, if asked, the dog would just look at you.
Again, I'm in your camp.
I think their existence matters.
I think that their dog-like preference to want to wake up again tomorrow and keep being a dog matters.
Yeah, I don't think their preferences matter zero, not at all, but I do think it's far less important
than what a human's preference would be, because I know you're about to disagree with me,
but the fact that they don't have language is one of the things that makes me think that they don't
have the same sort of reflective ability to think about themselves.
Lots more animals have language than you realize, too.
I have so much content for this that this needs to be another episode and not a feedback to what people are.
Okay, then let's leave this.
I did get us on that path, but I did want to say that there are smart rational people who I think
that do have varying opinions on this, and this is something worth exploring.
Okay.
Next time, later.
Yes.
Another time.
Another time.
Another day.
Another day.
Another place.
Probably here.
So, I mean, I talked about preference being really important.
That's honestly the same.
It's a very similar argument to the one that I have against what Anayash went into in that episode,
which was to talk about how there's no moral value to an organism that experiences great heights of pleasure all the time.
Experiences?
Oh, yeah.
Nothing but the maximum pleasure.
Right, and that wasn't really clarified on the episode that it was they only experienced maximum
pleasure, not thought or desire or anything else like that.
And I think that that's kind of, I don't know.
I don't even know how to address that because it's a very specific thing.
Right.
We can touch on somebody commented about orgasm, didn't they?
Oh, a lot of people commented on orgasm.
Why don't you guys talk about it?
Okay.
Sure.
Do you want me to play the part of jewels?
Please do.
Comment your jewels.
So, Anayash, if you don't think that orgasmium is to be considered plus infinity,
