It's not that I disagree.
I agree with what he says in a literal sense, but I disagree with the implications behind it.
Oh, I don't know.
It's not like we want to throw him under the bus.
We think that he's a hugely influential person.
Yeah.
But the community as a whole often is asking themselves,
do we give too much credit to Eleazar?
This is one of the most self-critical communities I've ever seen.
And so it's actually started to annoy me recently when people are like,
well, don't give too much credit to Eleazar.
I'm like, yeah, no, okay, obviously he's not God.
And he has some personality flaws as we've witnessed a few times.
But the man is legitimately a genius at explaining things to people.
And he's very entertaining.
And stop bagging on him.
He's contributed a lot.
He brought us all together in this community.
And I think that we aren't idolizing him.
It's not like we're treating him like David Karash, you know?
We think he's a smart guy who wrote some...
Who's David Kresh?
I don't know who David Kresh is.
Oh, wow.
Did I just date myself?
Maybe.
He was the leader of the Branch Davidian cult,
who are famous because they locked themselves up in a compound when the FBI came
and then burned them all down and killed a lot of them.
Sorry, our issues that we don't know history.
Actually, I should know this because less than two months ago,
there was a Skeptoid episode on conspiracy theories surrounding that incident.
Oh, okay.
Back to Brian Dunning.
So, yeah, no.
No one idolizes him to the point that a lot of people are saying,
and it annoys me when people try to make us out to be people who idolize him.
We don't idolize him.
We admire him because of the contributions he's made.
And some people are more given to being fans
and being kind of in a fan space of all sorts of different people.
So give them some slack.
And I think that the difference that you know what you're trying to get at is
that there's an important difference in kind between merit-based admiration
and blind idolatry.
And I think that the lesser-run community probably falls more into the former camp.
The less-run community gives EY a lot more flack than the I Love Science community
gives Neil deGrasse Tyson or anyone else.
There was a great comment on Reddit where somebody said Neil deGrasse Tyson came to their high school
and that turns out he was kind of a dick like the staff.
And someone in all caps, who's your god now, Reddit?
I know, that's the thing.
No one is going around saying, we shouldn't idolize Neil deGrasse Tyson too much.
We might turn into a Neil deGrasse Tyson cult.
And I don't know if he's actually a dick.
That was one person on Reddit, so who knows.
But of course he had to have been nice because he's Neil deGrasse Tyson.
All right.
Russell, we know you.
Thanks for your feedback.
Critical feedback as always.
We assume that you're the same Russell that we know actually.
It actually is.
That's the email that we received from Russell.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
All right.
So Ian Rodin, if a method of decision making produces consistently better results than
you are getting with your rational approach, then you are no longer being rational by following
your approach.
Answer, Ian, yes.
Yep.
Yep.
Yeah, that's the same thing.
That's the same thing that people say in science.
Like, oh, you're, if science is giving you the wrong answer, then you're not doing science,
right?
And whatever.
If your predictive model, yeah, if your predictive model doesn't predict things very well and
you get a better one, then you've got to update your model.
Yeah.
That's what Bayesian rationality is all about.
That's true.
Update your model.
And we had one more question that we're going to save for our episode on ethics.
Random Anon said, how is virtue ethics and or stoicism regarded in the rationalist world?
We'll do our best to cover that in an episode that we're going to do ethics at some point,
maybe more than once.
So we'll see you then for another day.
We are so done.
Yes.
Yeah, that was fun.
But keep sending it stuff.
This is a lot of fun.
This is one of the more fun episodes.
It was, they're all fun.
Yeah.
Whatever.
I had fun doing this.
I did too.
And we will start doing this at the beginning or end of various episodes so that we do
not get this big backlog that we have to power through in just one sitting.
Cool.
So if you want to be featured with your screen name and I guess go ahead and send us your
preferred pronouns so people don't slip up constantly or use they.
And if you want us to use your name or your username or whatever you prefer, let us know
and we can adjust that.
Write us on, yeah, write us on our subreddit, the Bayesian Conspiracy.
Write us on episode specific posts on our website.
The BayesianConspiracy.com.
Or email us at BayesianConspiracyPodcast at gmail.com.
And we look forward to hearing from you.
And if you haven't done so yet, please consider leaving a review at iTunes or rating something
to help keep the podcast relevant in the iTunes marketplace.
All right.
Thanks for listening.
Bye.
See ya.
