but they didn't realize that they were.
That's a really interesting state that they're,
and we're getting this,
and this, we get this across groups who come in,
I'm not pretending it's a random sample,
it's obviously self-selected.
People are coming in
because they have some orientation to my work,
so I'm not claiming this is like a scientific study,
but it's not nothing either.
The fact that many different groups of people,
religious, non-religious, many different backgrounds,
different places in the world come together,
and this is a reliable thing that happens.
I think that's indicating something that,
so yes, we can tell people,
yes, go back and try to recover,
do the wonderful things you're trying to do,
and don't make it,
don't try and dissect it away
because of a Cartesian framework,
but on the other hand,
here's a bunch of new practices,
or at least old practices that have been recovered,
or at least reverse engineered,
in which people can deeply recover
a lot of the experience and the learning
of what we're talking about here.
So it goes from being something
they may propositionally assert
into being something they procedurally
and perspectively and participatorily realize,
and I think that's an important thing to say as well.
When people ask,
and I'm not saying you have that responsibility,
I have chosen to take on that responsibility,
and a lot of people with me,
I'm not taking single credit,
but I think one of the things to say
is to say what you say by all means,
but also to say, well,
why don't you try ecologies of practices
that are based on this
and see the positivity that comes out
of being in these practices,
see what you realize and recover in these practices.
And I know Greg is doing something very similar
and our work, Greg is a powerful theorist,
but he's also creating an ecology of practices,
and his work and my work in the foundation's work
where we're doing a lot together.
And I just want to know what,
I mean, obviously there's great risk here.
There's people turning into gurus,
there's weird cult formations,
there's exploitation, there's money pumping,
you have to do a lot,
you have to try to build a lot into safeguard against this.
But I'm proposing that we could sort of reverse engineer
a complex ecology of practices
that could be properly understood as spiritual
in that it affords people transformative experiences
in which they are recovering this deep connectedness,
this intimacy,
their learning and reality and themselves
are being deeply disclosed together
within and without and between each other.
And you're getting the cultivation of a reorientation
towards meaning, virtue, wisdom.
I think this is also something we can say to people now.
Yeah, I think that's where you find the bridge
from a lot of the is of the science
to the odd of humanism and a new opening for fusion and connection.
One thing I wanted to ask you, Mike,
I haven't seen and I certainly haven't tracked all of your stuff,
but I am, I know you focus on continuity
and I know the approach that you take.
But I have, I'm curious,
I just wanted to make sure I had this opportunity to ask you,
when you think about the human condition
and the human intellect
and you think about kind of,
is there something, what is the thing,
what are the multiplicity of things
when you think about the human intelligence structure?
What do you identify, if anything,
that is kind of at the root of our explosion
over the last half million years
and to dominating the planet,
building technologies,
given rise to certain kinds of thought.
Where do you see that?
Do you think much about that particular kind of question
have you reflected on that?
I just love to get your thoughts
since I have, have you here.
Well, let's see.
I know it's a little bit of a switch topic,
but I wanted to check in with you on it.
Yeah, yeah.
So I don't think I have anything brilliant to add
over what a lot of smart people have said
about the unique capacities of humans
and why, and why we're,
this is such a successful embodiment and all that.
I can say a couple of things.
First, someone,
and I don't remember who it was,
but someone said that,
maybe Yuval Harari, I don't know.
Somebody said that the special thing that humans have
is that we're storytellers.
And I think that's a compelling vision,
except that I think all agents are storytellers,
fundamentally, from the first bacterium
that had to compress a very chaotic, noisy experience
into a simple model of what the hell is going on
and which of my effectors can I use
to improve certain scenarios.
You're now a storyteller.
You are now, you are no longer Laplace's demon
trying to track microstates.
You have committed to a certain story
of what effectors you have and what's going on.
I think we're all storytellers.
So I don't think it's that.
I mean, I think we crank it up to an amazing degree.
And I think that language,
you know, I'm sure language is an important part of it
in the sense that, that compressive,
that tool that can compress complex brain states
into a simple thing that can be passed on
to somebody else for uncompression,
I think is super powerful.
And as much as I like to use various tools
of cognitive and behavioral science in other places,
I've not seen anything that suggests
that language exists other than in brain.
So I wouldn't claim that, although we don't know.
I'm not saying it's impossible.
I'm saying we haven't seen anything like that.
So I think language is key.
I would say a couple of other things about humans.
One weird thing about humans
is that we have a cognitive light cone
that's longer than our lifespan,
which is a bit different.
You know, if you're a goldfish,
all of your goals are likely achievable, right?
You might have a 20 minute horizon of goals,
and you're probably going to live 20 minutes.
And most likely your goals are all achievable.
Humans are a uniquely, we have many goals
that are absolutely not achievable in our lifespan,
and we know it.
And so what kind of unusual pressures
or capabilities that unlocks, right?
Having goals that you can commit to
that you know are not achievable
within your own lifespan.
Maybe that's something.
And I guess the final thing I'll say is that,
and this becomes very important because people are now,
because of AI and all this,
people are trying to define proof of humanity certificates
and these kinds of things.
I want to say a couple of things about what a human is
and isn't according to my humble opinion.
If you, the first thing to realize is that,
and I have a diagram of this,
but I'll try to sort of pantomime it.
You got your standard modern human in the middle,
and it's got this like a gentle glow about him
and all the philosophies about the human, you know, the human.
And so going up back here above him
is a very smooth gradation of evolutionary stages
all the way back to a single cell microbe.
And when you say the human, well, which human?
So the human of today, the human of 100,000 years ago,
the human of 300,000 years, right?
It, you know, it's, and they say, well, it developed,
you know, this and that developed very fast.
They say, what's very fast?
One generation?
No, no, no, no, no, it takes you.
Well, then what was going on in between, right?
If you think that humans have responsibilities and right,
you know, they can be good.
And where exactly, right?
What can you blame one of these hominid ancestors
for what they did?
Or are they still, right?
So, so you got this spectrum, right?
I mean, I like continue on spectrum.
Okay, down below, you got the exact same thing
on a developmental time scale.
So again, what human?
You used to be an unfertilized OSI.
It was a very slow and gradual process of how we got here.
So which human are we talking about?
