and I'll connect to something else you say,
a model of the self that is inherently a collective
and flowing the way you're doing it,
I think you put those together
and you get, right,
multiply mutually evolving selves.
I don't think we are a self in any kind of magnetic sense.
I think, and this is what a lot of the therapy,
all the parts work and the IFS and a whole bunch of stuff,
we are properly dialogical.
We are dialogical within, we are dialogical without
and trying to find sort of the soul thing
that is the self is a mistaken category.
And this becomes important
because when you look at debates,
I'm teaching a course on the self right now
and Greg and I with Christopher Mastapietro
did a series called The Elusive Eye.
People will say the self isn't real
and then what they'll do is the arguments are
because they'll admit that all this stuff
we're talking about is going on and that's all there,
but that's not a self.
Well, why?
Because it doesn't give you something like a soul,
a single monadic substance
that's on the unchanging bearer of properties
and then they say, therefore it's not real.
And I turn around and I say,
well, then by that standard, nothing is real
because what science is showing us
is that nothing is a substance.
So all you're really saying is the self
is as real as everything else
or as unreal as everything else.
I think saying everything is unreal
is a useless thing to say.
I don't think that gets you anywhere
or advances anything.
And so I think what this self-no-self debate
is ultimately pointing to,
and I'm trying to show you,
it's deeply continuous with the biology
you've been arguing,
is we're facing a fundamental transformation
in what we understand the self to be,
dialogical, and what we understand rationality to be.
And I think those two things
are really profoundly important at a cultural level,
but if you've agreed with the argument I've made,
they ground out in deeper stuff in the biology
and let alone even in the physics.
And I think this gives them powerful plausibility
because we're proposing a fundamental paradigm shift.
Here's the final thing I'm going to say.
I think that mutual transformation
of the notion of self and rationality
is crucial to getting out of the meeting crisis.
I think as long as we remain
in that Cartesian framework, we are locked.
We are locked into nominalism.
We are locked into dualism.
We are locked into antagonistic processing.
And we are locked into all many of the central drivers
of the meeting crisis.
I think that's a...
Did you want to respond to that, Mike, or...?
I have things, but please go ahead.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I think certainly so,
one of the things that I, you know,
one of the things that I would be looking for,
and this is what John and I are doing,
the transcendent naturalism,
is to consolidate certain kinds of messages
that afford people ways of gripping the world,
that enable them to make sense of their lives,
make meaning in their lives as ecological agents
in a particular exploration of design space
and finding that kind of participatory relation
as being sought in a...
You know, there is a way to embed oneself
on the cusp of this aging arena of relation,
I believe, that many wisdom traditions have identified
as being fundamentally core to one's sense
of being present in the world.
And to me, one of the things that your work is doing,
one of the things that I was so drawn to John's work,
and again, sort of as a way to share with people
ways of being in the world,
to me, what it is that this shows scientifically,
philosophically, and participatory,
is it points a particular direction
for in many ways at the core being in the world.
There's a relationship to the world
that emerges in this dynamic process,
I think from both of your work,
that is a very, very important transformation
for us to communicate society and embrace as we go through.
So that's, again, I kind of keep coming back from me,
is gripping these elements to embed our structure,
our grammatical structure of relating to nature,
to the world, to the future,
in a particular way is deeply important to me.
So I just wanted to make that point and resonate with it.
Yeah, no, I think, I love all of that,
I think you're absolutely right.
And I think it's critical for us,
for people to realize that when we re-imagine
what the self is and take us away from this notion of a substance,
you know, some kind of monadic substance and all that,
it's different than what you said before,
which is that, well, everything is equally illusory.
I mean, there's nothing at that point.
Well, that's a deeply destabilizing concept for a lot of people,
and I think that's where they think we're going.
And the example that I try to help people think about is this,
I mean, it is true that we are patterns more than anything else,
but like, okay, so you've got a rat,
and you train the rat to press a lever and get a reward.
Now, if you zoom into what's going on here,
you've got some cells that have interacted with the lever,
you've got some cells that got the sugar of the reward,
they're not the same cells.
There is no single cell that had both experiences.
Who owns the collective, who owns the associative learning
that just took place there?
So there's this rat, which is a group of competent subunits,
and there's some mechanisms,
which that's the research program is to study them,
I call them a cognitive glue, that's kind of what we work on,
is to figure out, okay, so something has appeared here,
it isn't nothing, something has appeared here,
which is a pattern that has memories,
it can have goals, it can have preferences,
it can have competencies that the individual parts don't have,
and it's perfectly reasonable.
So somebody literally said,
I read your thing about this collective intelligence,
what do I do now?
And all I could say was,
whatever amazing thing you were going to do before you read my paper,
go do that, you can still do all that,
because you can, even though you're a set of patterns
that they're interacting in a particular way,
you can become a better pattern,
a more interesting, a richer pattern,
and that is what we can do.
And so commit to a bigger cognitive light cone,
to helping others have a better embodiment,
whatever it's going to be.
It doesn't dissolve all that stuff,
it just gives you a new window on it,
and you still, after all that is said and done,
you still got the opportunity and the responsibility
of moving forward as that and doing things.
So, yeah.
I want to reply to that, I think that's right.
I think getting it clear to people that we're not dissolving,
we're revealing or disclosing,
we're disclosing as opposed to dissolving,
I think is, and that's what I was trying to argue for.
And I agree with what you said,
tell people to go back and maybe use this to reinterpret
so they can recover what has been lost
because of an inappropriate frame.
I, with the Verveki Foundation's help,
we set up ecologies of practices.
We have a practice called Dialectic in the Dialogos
that helps people get into mutually shared flow states
of cognitive exploration,
and people discover collective intelligence
as something that is phenomenologically present
and almost agentic in what's happening.
They get the we space that takes on a life of its own
and leads people into each other
and everybody beyond each other
into something deeper and more profound.
And people will say things like,
I discovered a kind of intimacy I didn't know existed
and I've always been looking for.
And if that doesn't sound platonic to you,
I don't know what does,
that's an amnesis through and through, right?
And so, I agree with what you said,
but what I'm also suggesting, Mike,
is if we, and we have to do this carefully and ethically,
virtuously and with virtuosity,
but we can reverse engineer by paying attention
to the wisdom traditions and the science,
the cognitive science, the kind of science you're doing,
we can reverse engineer practices for people
that help them to do the recovery
and also the development of the cognitive light cone,
right, of a recovery of a lot of what is lost
for people in the meeting crisis.
Just, there's so much more,
but just pick up on that sense of,
this is a, they say they had always been looking
for this kind of intimacy,
