So I agree with you.
I just, you know, I can think of too many in-between cases,
which I think will all show up.
I think we're going to, you know, you got your,
like, right now you've got people
that we say are non-neurotypical.
I mean, wait till you see what's coming, right?
When everybody's got all kinds of, you know,
somebody's got a third hemisphere grafted on,
so now they can actually, you know,
they've got extra IQ points.
And so you say, you know, you read,
like the rest of us wouldn't have been responsible,
but you really should have known what you were doing,
because, you know, you got that third hemisphere.
You know, these kinds of things are eventually going to show up.
We're going to have to figure it out.
And I agree with you.
And that's why I brought up the example of children.
We don't have a definitive thing where they're persons.
And in fact, we have this weird capacity.
We can even do it to some degree with the raising of dogs.
If we can sort of treat things in the right way as persons,
and they start to approximate personhood.
And of course, we have individuals,
and people have seriously, and I don't mean just sloppily,
reflected on whether or not psychopaths,
people who seem to be amoral,
they seem to be blind to moral normativity,
are properly persons, precisely because they lack the ability
to undertake exactly that reciprocal recognition.
And so, again, I agree with you.
I wasn't proposing a hard deadline,
but I was proposing that there's confusion
around personhood and humanity.
And I think calling somebody a human being,
I think should be largely a psychobiological designation.
I think calling somebody a person
is we're bringing in a whole bunch of other criteria.
Those criteria are probably going to shift.
I don't think they're finally definitive
because I don't think anything is intrinsically
or inherently relevant.
And that goes back to your butterfly again, right?
But I do think there are mistakes
that are happening around this,
and that's what I'm trying to point to.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Gentlemen, we've reached that time
that we had agreed prior to hitting record
that we would all have to come to a stop.
So if you want to wind it down in the next couple of minutes,
maybe some closing thoughts, and then we'll wrap this one.
And I'll say right now that if you want to come back to this show,
or if John and Greg, if you want to take this
on to transcendent naturalism
and continue the conversation, the option is yours.
But yeah, if you want to go ahead
and maybe make some final thoughts.
John?
Sure. Well, I'll offer some.
First off, it's been a joy.
Your continuum of intelligence, Michael,
is a beautiful thing to play with.
It's an enlightening thing.
And I deeply appreciate the way you're,
both the way you think about it,
the way you have researched it,
and the way you've articulated it here.
So for me, again, sort of, I'm coming back,
keep coming back to, I built,
you talk, unified theory of knowledge
for us a potentially new grip,
both in relationship to the world
and relationship to ourselves.
It affords this deep ontontological continuity
and the potential for enormous change going forward.
It embeds our understanding of categories
in a structural relational patterning,
a close to a process theology of Whitehead,
but also then not so much getting
into the incredible weeds,
but giving a basic optimal gripping of,
hey, energy, matter, life, mind, culture,
in these kind of, there's a continuity
and discontinuity that can frame us
and then place us as agents
in the arena in a particular way
that orients us more towards meaning in life.
And of course, this is John's work.
So to then get together and to jam and riff around that
and have that music come alive here
has been a real pleasure.
So I deeply enjoyed it.
Yeah, likewise.
So thank you, Justin, for putting this together.
And I think you guys, the work that you do
is super important.
And I'm extremely happy that some of the biology
and the computer science that we do can be connected
with these issues of personal, interpersonal,
these things that are very important for people.
So yeah, so thank you for doing that.
I think that's really important.
Yes, thank you, Justin, for putting this together.
Great pleasure.
Always a great pleasure to interact with you, Greg.
And Mike, I think this is the third time we've spoken
and I'm continually amazed by the deep conversions
between our work.
We started in very different places
and in some ways it looks like we're tackling
very different problems, but when you push on them,
they seem to converge in really important
and mutually supporting ways.
And I find that very, very powerfully encouraging
about the plausibility of the overall framework.
And so I'm deeply grateful for your work
and always a pleasure.
I hope that you and I talk again.
And we sort of share students here and there
and I, but it would be nice if you and I
talked a little bit more regularly.
So just opening the invitation to that.
Yeah, anytime, anytime.
Absolutely, yeah.
Thank you all so much.
Great fun.
Thank you.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'll say goodbye to you gentlemen
after we stop her cord real quick,
but I also want to acknowledge the YouTube audience.
Thank you, guys.
I hope this was a, I was jokingly thinking it's
tri-electric into trio logos here.
We had three incredible minds.
So that was a frame that I had set up
in speaking of frames.
I really appreciate that you guys shed some light on the
dimensionality of a frame that's very large
that we're working with.
Also, perhaps maybe some frames getting broken
on the smaller scale of beingness,
self-ness and the fluidity, the continuation
or the continuum of these self-ness beingness
of the psychosocial dynamic of that, all of that.
So thank you guys so much.
This was everything and more that I was aspiring to
when I imagined this get together.
So thank you very much.
I appreciate your hard work.
And again, I am a loyal student,
maybe a little shallow in depth,
but I aspire nonetheless.
So anyway, but like I said,
I'll say goodbye to you all off camera here
and bye-bye YouTube audience again.
Thank you.
Thank you.
