after we're done exchanging,
I'm also going to hopefully benefit from your agency
and we're going to have a different relationship.
So to me, all of these things are not about looking for categories,
they're about looking for ways we're going to relate
to whatever the system is in question
and in a very specific way.
I say engineering, which is applicable
to kind of all of the left side of that spectrum
and then after that it becomes other things,
I don't know, psychoanalysis or something,
but love and friendship and whatnot.
But that's what I think these things are.
I think these things are interaction frames that we take up
and then we see, which is why this is really critical.
A lot of people really,
they have philosophical kind of pre-commitments
to where things are.
They'll talk about category errors.
They'll say, well, it's a category error
to say that the cells and tissues can think
and can, I mean, I use the word think,
but can we have intelligence and so on?
I'm like, well, in the Middle Ages,
it was a category error to think that it was the same forces
that moved rocks on earth and celestial objects in the sky.
That used to be a category error,
except that these categories need to evolve with the science
and I think these are all empirical questions.
I don't think we get to sit back and have feelings
about what is and isn't intelligence.
I think we have to do experiments.
And so you pick a frame, you try it,
you make a hypothesis about here's the space
I think it's working in.
Here's the goals I think it has.
Here's the degree of competency I claim it has.
Let's try it.
Let's do the experiments.
We'll intervene in some way.
We'll see this thing.
And then we'll know, am I overdoing it?
Am I under recognizing mind?
Am I over recognizing it, then we pick.
So I think it's a scientific problem
optimizing relationships in the end.
So I think that's great.
And I'm mostly in agreement with that too.
Two things come to mind.
I mean, I think there is still a proper philosophical job
in that scientific endeavors experiment presuppose things
that therefore can't be given by scientific experimentation.
That doesn't mean that philosophical level gets to dictate.
It means that the two discourses
have to continually talk to each other.
And that's of course why I'm a cognitive scientist.
For example, the model you propose, which I think is good,
there is a fundamental presupposition of relationality
being central to a grasp on ontology.
And that opens up the question, well,
notice that information and intelligibility
are inherently relational things.
Maybe we should be prioritizing relationality
over the rollata in our ontology.
That's a kind of philosophical question
that emerges by reflecting on what is presupposed in the science.
And I think, Mike, and I hope you take this not as an insult,
I think you're actually doing work
that is pushing towards that,
that's saying pay attention to the relationality
over the rollata and prioritize that.
And I think that is actually a deep and fundamental challenge
to our kind of standard ontological grammar,
which goes back to a Cartesian substance
where we talk about individual things,
having properties that can independently exist,
independent of their relations to other things.
And I think, and there's a lot of people,
and I'm one of those groups that are saying,
we need to challenge that fundamental Aristotelian ontology
in order to actually accommodate into our worldview
what the current science is disclosing.
What do you think about that, as what I just said?
Yeah, yeah, no, I think it's exactly right.
And I've sort of, you know, if you were to,
you ask some people, what is the central thing
that persists through time?
And they'll say, well, it's genes.
And somebody else will say, well, it's information.
And what I think it is, is perspectives.
I think what we have is perspectives, ways to actually reduce.
I mean, a perspective is a chosen reduction of all the stuff
you could take in from some vantage point.
You're going to agree to ignore some things.
You're going to emphasize other things.
So perspectives are what change, evolve, interact.
Like I think it's all about interaction and perspectives.
Observers, perspective interactions,
I think that's the basis of everything that we have to do in science.
And that's very similar to Ladyman's structural realism,
that what is persistent across all the sciences
are these kinds of broad, real patterns
by which we're doing sort of this, like you said,
this compression and selection of information.
And what survives are not the particular semantic content
we give to it, but sort of these structural patterns.
And stuff like that.
Yeah, I think that's something deep.
And so what you have is you have not only a neoplatonism up and down,
you have a neoplatonism across time,
which I think is really, really interesting.
So I'm going to stop for a bit,
because I feel that you and I are starting to get into a rhythm
and I don't want to exclude Greg at all.
And I really appreciate this, what you're doing.
I make reference to your work a lot.
My pleasure.
Because I think, yeah, thank you.
Yeah, I think our work is complementary
and we mutually strengthen each other's positions
in a way that's intellectually respectable and justifiable.
But I do think the same thing is the case for my work and Greg.
So I want Greg to talk now.
Well, actually, that's a nice segue,
because I do want to check in with you, Michael,
in terms of what?
I mean, you're doing such intense, brilliant theoretical work.
You and I touched on this a little bit in our private conversation.
You know, John and I talk about this meaning crisis.
I'm a clinician.
I'm deeply concerned with how we see ourselves as human beings
and what science says about what we are,
what we know, how we think about it,
and how does that connect to wisdom traditions
in a particular way?
And I see your work as brilliant empirical work
that challenges certain old, pre-existing notions
at times dominated the paradigmatic natural science view,
or at least it opens up a wide variety of different perspectives.
As a psychologist who looks at the way people think
about themselves in the world, I hope we evolve to new frames.
John and I are doing a series called Transcendent Naturalism,
basically anchoring us in a naturalistic way
to the potentialities of transcendence
at individual and collective levels.
What kinds of worldviews afford that?
And what kinds of scientific understandings
of the world afford that?
So I'd really like to hear your thoughts about that.
What has been your experience as you open up this realm,
as you share this teleomic perspective,
open up us, think about light cones across a wide variety
of different domains.
What does it say about us in the universe
from a scientific perspective?
And what does that mean?
Yeah, great topic.
So I'll say something general first,
and then I'll dive into a specific example
of what I think this means.
Overall, I think the whole crisis of meaning thing
is incredibly important.
The work that I try to do, I view very strongly
as trying to climb out of it,
not trying to reductively dig a hole deeper.
And this is really important because I'm not a clinician,
but I get tons of emails from people who say,
okay, I've read your paper.
I understand that I'm a collective intelligence of cells,
and now I don't know what to do with myself anymore.
Literally, what should I do?
And maybe I've read some Sapolsky,
and now I don't think I have free will anymore,
so I'm really confused,
and I don't have any idea what to do, right?
So I think that's important
because I think it's really critical
that the stuff that we do is seen as what I think it really is,
which is providing now a way to climb out of
all of the things that we were told
by evolutionary theory, by neuroscience, by physics.
Well, you don't have this,
and actually you don't have that,
and it's all about competition
and survival of the fittest, so we've got that.
And so, okay, there were a lot of bad ideas that needed to go.
Great, but now we've gotta climb our way up the other side
of this and rebuild on a better foundation,
rebuild some of the things that are necessary for us to flourish.
And yeah, I think that's partly what we're doing,
and I think a huge part of that
is the whole diverse intelligence field
and this idea of building tools that go beyond
our very narrow monkey brain affordances
that we have for recognizing other kinds of minds,
I think is critical.
I think if we do this, things are going to be...
Once we are able to recognize
other sentient beings around us,
and we commit to this notion
