Welcome to Entanglement Radio on the Conversations from the Brink Network. I am your host, Angela
Lovec, and this show is all about the potential and possibilities of what it means to be human.
Our guest today is an evolutionary philosopher and systems designer, Daniel Schmockdenberger,
and we are going to be talking all about, obviously, our human potential, but we're going
to be talking about blending science, spirituality, philosophy, how we create meaning in our lives,
and talk about this idea of emergence in synergy and a self-organizing universe, which
I think are really important concepts to understand and really appreciate how we can
implement those in our lives so that we can make the changes necessary. Coming up next week,
we have Lisa Knopp, she's the author of six award-winning books of creative nonfiction,
and we're going to talk about the cultural and spiritual factors that lead to women's bodies
issues, eating disorders, and ageism. I'm excited about that. If you'd like to know more about
myself or the show, my website is angeloovec.com, and you can find me on Facebook and on Twitter
at Hestia Health. You can also find out more about this show, Entanglement Radio, and my project,
Conversations from the Brink, which is all about talking about insight and inspiration for humanities
next step, and that's conversationsfromthebrink.com. With that, I want to introduce my guest,
Daniel, who has a transdisciplinary science background with a whole systems complexity
and integral framework. He loves solving seemingly intractable problems by reassessing the
foundational data of axioms of the field and then restructuring it from the ground up. Daniel
was the academic dean for College of Mind, Body Medicine and has consulted for many cutting-edge
integrative doctors and medical clinics to help find novel solutions for complex cases.
He created and ran a cutting-edge think tank developing complex system solutions for
environmental and social issues and has directed a transdisciplinary group of scholars
on a philosophy of mind project addressing core questions of mind, brain, interface,
and developing axiomatic reformulation for the epidemiology of neuroscience. Wow,
that's a mouthful. But with that, I feel very honored and blessed to welcome Daniel to the
program. Hi, Daniel. How you doing? I'm good. I'm happy to be here. Thanks for having me.
Well, I'm excited, you know, as I'm connecting with you and I'm reading about all of these
different projects that you do. One of the things that I find really interesting with people who
kind of have been involved in over so many different disciplines and fields of study is
what is it that drives you? It's an intersection of a number of things. So I'm probably like most
people very moved by suffering, suffering of other sentient beings, humans and non-humans,
and how to reduce that, eliminate the foundational causes of it. This is a core
call for me in life that is across all different topics. I'm also called by the
positive side of their experience. So how do we create world systems that make possible and induce
not only less suffering, but higher quality of life across all meaningful aspects of what
quality of life is for all life now and ongoing and all the different facets that come together to
make that possible. And also just by a deep love of universe, which leads to a fascination in
wanting to learn all that I can, which of course ends up applying itself to the previous topics,
but is a lower in and of itself. Well, I think I want to start with this idea. So I was watching
this short talk that you gave, and you were talking about the evolutionary universe story,
kind of the ones that we've been able to piece together now, which is much more whole
and complex and very different from kind of the way that we look at things in science,
where we like to get mechanistic and break things down into parts that we can then analyze.
And so I want you to give us a view of the way that you see this universal story and tell us
about what it means to be self-organizing. There's a lot in there. Yes. So to really have a
proper context for the scientific worldview and scientific process as we know it and what we call
reductionist thinking, it's important to kind of understand how it emerged. So when we look at
Copernicus, Galileo, Descartes, Newton, this was really what helped to deliver us from the dark ages,
where people had different religious ideas about the nature of absolute reality that were the basis
of crusades and the burning of witches and so many things that had no empirical basis
and empiricism, being able to say, hey, wait, no matter what we think it is,
we might not be able to agree on God's name, but we can agree on the speed of sound. We can agree
on the speed of light. We can agree on whether and solve problems we hadn't been able to solve
like Galileo, finding the rate of things falling. And it seemed like not only the ability to explain
a tremendous amount, which it was, and to empower us with the application and technology, which it
was, but also a way to get everybody on the same page. Because if there is objective empirical
reality independent of our beliefs about it, and we can all kind of find that out, there's a profound
unification of that. So it's important to understand how crucial that is and also why it, you know,
emerged with the philosophic kind of fervor that it had of a movement away from subjective based
belief systems towards objective based belief systems. Now, of course, then the problem ended
up becoming in the huge success of that, that when we define what is real by what's measurable,
what's objective, what is available to empiricism, then we ended up defining that which is subjective
as not real, just by definition, right, that becomes part of the axiom. And so then consciousness
and our whole interiority is not real, right, it's first person stuff and science is the domain
of third person stuff. And as scientists continue to be able to explain so many things that we
had previously had in spiritual, philosophic, religious categories, been able to explain them
better in many ways. This has led to a whole technological advancement of humanity, which is,
you know, beautiful. And the downside of it, of course, is it has no interiority. So either
consciousness is not real at all, or it's the somehow emergent property of brains and neural
networks that usually leads to interpretations of having no agency, meaning, etc. And so,
as we take some of the next steps in our understanding of universe, beyond some of the
early religious concepts and beyond the earlier scientific concepts to basically just progressively
better and better and more nuanced and more interconnected understandings of the nature
of the reality we're in, we start to look at with it, even within third person, even within what
science looks at, that in very complex systems like biologic systems, there are so many variables
interacting so dynamically, that to try and understand those systems by just looking at
individual parts, which seem to make a lot of sense for us, right, like, when you think about
in the time of early science that we could calculate a ballistic curve that we had done
in pendulum dowsing before, now we could use Newtonian mechanics and calculus to plot that
curve perfectly, but there were only two variables we had to affect, right, which is the the angle of
the cannonball and how much gunpowder we put in, we could take what seemed like a difficult
scenario and reduce it to a small number of variables and have a tremendous amount of insight
and impact. But in certain kind of complex systems, where the variables actually do different things
in relationship with other variables than they do on their own, and where they interact so quickly
and complexly, reductionism has limits of how explanatory and how useful it can be, and so
we've had an emerging field of system science, how do we understand whole self-interacting systems,
and one of the key insights here is that when we take the parts apart, like say we take a cell,
we take it apart and we look at each individual type of molecular structure, we look at the
organelles, we look at the organic molecules that make it up, none of those organelles, none of those
molecules on their own breathe, and yet the cell has a whole breathe, and so we say what part
breathe and none of them do, right, it is the complex orderly relationship of all those parts
in that way that leads to respiration and life as a whole as an emergent property, and so this
property of synergy which is the behavior of a whole system that's not found in the parts taken
separately is something where reductionism isn't able to give us the whole picture,
understanding the parts is important, it's just not the whole thing, understanding how the parts
come together, and what the relationships are that aren't found in the parts separately and what
the whole is is also a big part of the picture. So this is where kind of the fields of system
science and complexity science have emerged and given us better insights even into the nature
of third person physical reality, and then we also have this movement to look at what if
consciousness first person experience isn't well explained exclusively as an emergent property of
physical systems, right, brain, etc., and even if it was, if I'm looking at the
EEG of a Buddhist monk who's in some deep meditative state, I can explain their EEG patterns,
but I have no idea what their experience is like, or how to get there, and so there is a need for
a process of understanding the texture and the nature of subjectivity of consciousness of first
person that's beyond third person completely. So science is going through, or our, our, our
philosophic system that science is a part of is going through an evolution to include more complex
understanding of the nature of third person and the deeper understanding of the nature of first
person and how those come together. Well, that was very well explained. So as I'm listening to
say this, and many people in, in my community, and so I have a largely spiritually based community,
and we like to cherry pick science to validate our spiritual beliefs, which I kind of find annoying,
but anyway, we will, what I, I understand what you were saying, but why do we need to quantify
and categorize and, and understand subjective experience? Why can it not just be something
that runs maybe parallel or why do they, I don't think I even, why do we need to have an explanation
for that experience? Why can't the experience be part of the package of the whole? Does that make
sense? I will speak to what I think makes sense. Okay. So a couple things. Say you take a system
like Buddhism where there are certain kinds of processes that are for rather than exploring
this nature of physical reality, right, the speed of sound or the pH of a, of a fluid,
they're exploring aspects of one's own conscious experience. So do this kind of breathing, pay
attention to these kinds of things, move your attention in these ways, and then notice what
you experience. And this is both because if many people do that, and they find some similar things
independent of being pre-suggested to look for certain things, then not just, we're not just
exploring subjectivity, we're getting through this intersubjective exploration of what might be true
about consciousness, about experience as a whole that informs all of us. And we just become better
at navigating our own internal landscape, right? So this is relevant if we want to be able to move
out of anxiety and depression and et cetera into states of subjective experience that are
more fun to be in and more creative and make our availability to others better. And so it's, it's not
simply to like prove something, it's to actually learn the contours of the dimension of universe,
the subjective dimension, so that we can navigate it better and understand it better, right? And
understand, because it's fascinating, but also understand so that we can navigate and help others
too. I would also say that why it's relevant to really understand the relationship between
consciousness and physics between mind and brain body is, one, we live in a system in a world right
now where science has had so much explanatory power and, you know, has been able to make the
radically complex technology that's allowing you and I to talk wirelessly across the world right
now. And then for this to be heard by all your listeners and have us exploring Mars and deep
reaches the brain all like this, because of its explanatory power, it has become the dominant
philosophical system. And if it's a philosophic system that ultimately in most interpretation
says what's real is physical stuff, right? This is called physicalism, physical particles are real
and consciousness either doesn't exist at all with view called radical liminism, or it exists,
but it actually couldn't have agency, right? It arises as this emergent property from the brain
and therefore it can witness only but has no causal influence, which is an inexorably nihilist,
right? Meaningless view, that's a real bummer. And it's not just a real bummer, it's a real
problematic thing for science being perceived as uncommenceratable with ethics, right? Because
ethics involves the experience of sentient creatures and science, you know, that's not its domain.
And so we have this technological force, right? Science as a system of seeing the world that gives
rise to technology that gives rise to the way we're building and affecting the world that affects
subjective experience, but without any compass or guidance system, because it doesn't
commensurate with ethics. So it's very important to actually have a deep scientific exploration
of the nature of consciousness, so that we can actually affect and direct the development of
technology, right? And the development of our built world. And I don't think that I'm disagreeing
with you. I think that that's an important piece, but I also find that the experience aspect, the
not, because I feel, and this is actually something that I have been working through, and in my world
we talk about the masculine and feminine energies. And I tend to be very, like I spend a lot of time
in my mind, I spend a lot of time in deep contemplation thinking about the things. And
one of the things that I have been exploring is this idea of embodiment. And instead of thinking
about what it is that I'm doing, being in the experience, which to me is slightly different.
It's not a, it's not about better or worse. It's not a value judgment that this is the correct way.
This is the wrong way. But there is something different about having the awareness from an
intellectual perspective and embodying the experience. And I think that that's where,
you know, I do a lot of work with cancer survivors. And we, they get a lot of people telling them a
lot of the research, and this is what needs to do. But one of the reasons they've told me they
really like to come to my class is because I create, we create meaning from data. We create
meaning from story and experience and being not just like the other day we talked about
Candace Pert and she wrote a book called The Molecules of Emotion, which are all about,
you know, neuropeptides and the, the connections between like the bio,
biochemical correlates of emotion, basically. And then we went and we had the
into meditation and we connected very metaphorically, energetically, spiritually with
our emotional bodies. And so there was this play between understanding, you know,
Dr. Pert and her amazing research. And then we had the experience of embodiment of that emotion
in itself. And so that's where I kind of, where I'm looking at your stuff. And it's just incredibly
fascinating. And I love it, but it's so intellectual. And I just, I also interview a lot of people that
talk about, you know, the heart. And I, I know we can obviously talk very biologically about the
heart, but talk about the heart more metaphorically or spiritually. Where do you feel that that fits
in to this idea of emergence in this self-organizing universe?
I gave you a lot there again, didn't I?
That's great. I think we create false dichotomies that lead to either unnecessarily polarized partial
views or kind of pendulum swinging back and forth between partial truths. And we need to learn how
to transcend the false dichotomies. So for instance, embodiment and experience versus
intellect and understanding or heart versus mind, there's no versus, right? It's how do we
evolve and expand both and the relationship for the full human experience. And so let's say,
let's say we talk about any kind of very deep trans personal, numinist spiritual experience.
So let's say we talk about a vision quest or a medicine journey. Okay. So say we take a medicine
journey and someone has an experience, right? They're having a very real deep, profound, maybe,
you know, life altering experience. Then they come out of it. And they're going to interpret that
through a cognitive model. And so say someone goes into a journey and part of what happened,
there was a dark part of the journey and they saw monsters chasing them, which is this is not
an uncommon thing. And they come out and there's a particular worldview that says, well, the medicine
was letting you see into the astral realm. And there are monsters in the astral realm that are
actually after you because whatever you did bad things in the past life, or that's just where
they are. And so now you need to put crystals around yourself and need to the person having
more fear, more disempowerment, et cetera, or someone else has the exact same experience. And
they have a different kind of worldview facilitation that says maybe the monsters were the way that
your mind brain complex symbolically represented unresolved fears and emotions. Maybe, you know,
represents issues you had with your parents or whatever in childhood. Let's try again. And
then the person faces the monster and then the monster becomes their dad. And then they
make peace with their dad. And then it becomes their dad's inner child and have this whole healing.
But the cognitive model actually ends up affecting the meaning you make ends up affecting how that
experience is stored, how it's interpreted and how it becomes a part of your behavioral and
experiential basis for the rest of your life. So if I only did the cognitive side and talk to people
about like we're talking now, the worldview of psychedelics, and no one ever had an experience
with it, for instance, or meditation or whatever, we also wouldn't get there. So it really is at the
