the behavior of every single individual person.
I probably can't give everyone an individual microphone.
I probably can't track each person's brain states in a large crowd.
And I might not even have access to a camera, let alone good motion capture cameras that
can track everyone's head and limb movements.
But come back now to the crowd to imagine at the start of this discussion.
So the difference between the coffee shop crowd and the rock concert audience or the
sporting event crowd, they're truly easy for you or I to identify.
An uncoordinated group of independent individuals happening to coexist in a shared space versus
a coordinated, interdependent group of members of a crowd.
We can simply hear that these two groups of people sound different.
Similar, we can simply hear when we are engaged in participating as a collective sort of agent
or whether we're just interacting in a large, independent group of people or even a very
large musical ensemble.
So with a well-placed microphone or maybe a few microphones, we can generate a single
audio recording of the sound that an interacting group makes over time.
A human can make inferences about the interaction and acoustic social world of these crowds
just by listening to the sounds they've created.
Similarly, tools from dynamical systems and theories allows us to make inferences about
the behavior of an entire complex system based on this one measurement that we have access
to.
So for the next little while, I'm going to walk you through a little bit of theory and
a toy example, and then I'm going to end this talk with data from two different real-life
multi-aging groups analyzed with tools from dynamical systems theory.
So the first item in our toolkit here we have is phase-based reconstruction.
So we can reconstruct the behavior of a system as a whole by measuring only one of its parts,
and this is called Taken's theorem.
This is accomplished by embedding delayed copies of a single time series into multiple
dimensions.
And what you have on the right here is a single time series extracted from the Lorenz system.
Delayed to make another time series and delayed once more to make a third time series.
So the Lorenz system, if you know, it's describable by three differential equations.
And using the one time series we have we can reconstruct a projection of the Lorenz system.
And this phase-based reconstruction maintains the same topography as the original Lorenz
system.
And in the case of our acoustic crowd data what we can take is a time series of the acoustic
signal and we can embed that into further dimensions just like we did with the Lorenz
systems.
And we can follow this exact same steps to reconstruct that system's behavior over time.
And once we've completed this phase-based reconstruction we can visualize the behavior
of the reconstructed system by generating what's called recurrence plots.
So this is done by plotting recurrent points from the reconstructed phase space that's
within some radius that we set.
We can evaluate the structures in this recurrence plot via recurrence quantification analysis.
So on the right here you see a few examples of some time series.
You see their reconstructed phase spaces in the middle and on the bottom you see the recurrence
plots.
So one of the simplest measures we can glean from recurrence plots are the rate that states
reoccur and this is called simply recurrence rate.
So in these diagrams on the left here you see a time series of a simple sine wave and
of course if you reconstruct the phase space of a sine wave you're going to get something
like a circle.
We then plot a point on our recurrence plot every time our system revisits a portion of
the phase space within that certain radius that we've set.
Within the sine waves recurrence plot we can see a lot of these diagonal lines.
Diagonal lines reflect deterministic behavior and they track how similar sequences of values
change over time.
As our sine wave is reliably deterministic we see these long diagonals.
The recurrence value we extract here is as expected called determinism.
In the middle we see uncorrelated white noise.
The time series is random, the reconstructed phase space is similarly random and as a result
we see little to no diagonal or any other structures in the recurrence plot.
And finally on the right we see a time series extracted from speech.
It's a little bit deterministic like our sine waves so there are some diagonal structures
in the recurrence plot but the length of these diagonals varies and we report this variation
in a value called entropy.
Finally recurrence plots can also contain certain vertical structures in addition to
the diagonals.
You don't see any here but vertical structures occur when states do not change for some period
of time.
So these are indications of periods of stability and we measure these with a value called liminarity.
Liminarity in contrast with determinism measures how a signal is organized in terms of similar
absolute values that are stable over time.
And that was a lot to throw at you so just to summarize and provide a slightly different
visual the recurrence quantification analysis measures that we take from our system are
recurrence rate which is the percentage of recurrence points on the recurrence plot.
It represents patterns of behavior that repeat over time.
And then determinism the percentage of points that fall on a diagonal in the recurrence
plot and determinism represents behaviors that belong to a longer sequence of behavior.
So entropy the variability in the lengths of these diagonal lines represents the amount
of disorder that there is in the sequence.
And finally at liminarity this is the percentage of all points that fall on a vertical line
in the recurrence plot and this represents clusters of behavior for some length of time
such as when a system visits a behavior for a period of time leaves and then returns that
behavioral state.
Okay great thank you for going with me on that theoretical journey.
And now that you know how recurrence spots are generated and how to interpret them we're
going to take a look at two types of crowds.
So the first crowd I'm looking at the first multi-agent system is a model system for us.
So this is a group of musicians that performing a piece called Welcome to the Imagination
World.
This piece was composed to do something really interesting.
So the composer wrote the first few minutes of the piece to be completely random.
In music theory terms we call this a leotoric when some element of the music is left up
to chance or left up to whatever the performers decide to play in the moment.
So assuming the sounds work the start of this video sounds a little bit like this.
Alright so that's not the musicians warming up on stage it's the actual music and here
the musicians themselves are instructed not to interact with each other.
After a few minutes the musical score directs the musicians to coordinate and they begin
to sound more like one interacting ensemble and I'll play you a little bit of what that
sounds like.
Alright.
So what we're seeing here is we have sort of a ground truth knowledge of what the system
is doing.
In the beginning they're uncoordinated independent individual musicians and then the musical
interaction when they start interacting with each other this serves as a coupling mechanism
and as this coordination between the musicians arises they begin to sound like one musical
ensemble.
So what we aren't seeing here we're not seeing emergent or spontaneous interaction in this
particular musical composition and performance since the musicians are told what to do a
little bit by the musical score and they're told precisely when to begin coordinating
the behavior.
So in this particular performance the divide between uncoordinated and coordinated joint
music making it's made even more apparent by the fact that the lights turn on and the
conductor arrives on stage just as the musicians begin to play together as one ensemble.
But it provides a really good test bed since we have the ground truth of what the dynamics
are of this two stage of coordination patterns.
We can use these recurrence quantification analysis tools from dynamical systems and
we can ask are there any differences in the nonlinear recurrence dynamics that we measure
with RQA between the uncoordinated and coordinated acoustic behavior of this musical ensemble.
And yes, yes there are so at the top here you're seeing 30 seconds from the beginning
of that uncoordinated jumble of sounds, the end of that uncoordinated jumble of sounds
and at the bottom are the first and last 30 seconds of the coordinated part of the piece
where they sound like a musical ensemble.
And we can see that the acoustic behavior for musicians in the coordinated section of the
music is much more structured with these vertical bursts of collected stretches of sound.
We can even look closer at five second samples.
So if I look at five seconds out of each of these 30 second sections we see the same
sort of vertical structures emerging in the coordinated sections but not the uncoordinated
sections.
And we can perhaps learn even a little bit more by looking at the distributions of those
measures that we extract from these plots.
So in this plot here what you're seeing is the coordinated section of the piece in blue
and uncoordinated sections in red.
So what we're seeing for each of these RQA metrics is that when the musicians began interacting
with each other as a coordinated musical ensemble, recurrence and stability measures increased
overall.
In addition, the interacting ensemble also exhibited further variability in these recurrence
measures.
This indicates that the interacting ensemble of musicians were able to explore a greater
variety of behavior than when they performed as a stage full of individual musicians.
We can see this even more clearly if we plot those same recurrence measures over time.
So the blue and purple lines here represent the uncoordinated initial sections of the
piece and orange and greens are from the coordinated sections of the piece.
And you can see when they're coordinated these values are much more...
I've said this backward, orange and green are from the uncoordinated section of the
piece, blue and purple are from the coordinated section of the piece, and you can see a lot
more variability when they're allowed to coordinate with each other.
All right, so that's cool.
That's a musical ensemble.
But what about an even messiered data?
Well I have some data from the cheering section, the student section of a basketball game.
And we can ask, is there a relationship between these nonlinear recurrence dynamics measured
by RQA and different categories of acoustic behavior of this crowded basketball game?
And this data, it was labeled by undergraduates, it's from colleagues at BYU.
And it was labeled into a few different kinds of behavior.
There was positive, chanting, distraction noise, angry noise, a few other categories
of behavior.
And I'm just going to show you recurrence plots from two of these.
So the first you see here is a recurrence plot of distraction noise.
And you could think of this as booing or, I don't know, jangling keys or something at
someone throwing a free throw, trying to distract them.
And you can see there's not a lot of features in this recurrence plot.
It looks a lot like our uncoordinated section of that musical piece.
In contrast, the second recurrence plot here is from a section where the fans were positively
chanting, you know, go, team, go, whatever you chant at a basketball game.
And you see here clearly these vertical bursts of laminar activity.
You see periods of stability in this crowd as they're interacting together as they're
making this chant.
And I can plot this out in distributions as well.
So these are our four different RQA metrics.
You can see a difference between these are six kinds of sounds that our basketball crowd
was making.
Positive chant at the top, negative chanting, distraction noise, cheer, applause, and anger.
And you can see differences in these.
You can also see similarities.
So maybe positive and negative chant are pretty similar to each other.
They seem to revisit states frequently, which is that recurrence measure, which makes sense
if you think of the periodicity of a chant.
They're also both following a fairly stable variety of long trajectories of states.
And they're tending to revisit states in a similar way.
And positive and negative chant are also quite different from the other categories of crowd
sound.
Distraction noise, cheer, and applause, they all look pretty similar here to me.
A bit lower on these RQA metrics.
Well angry noise seems to be off by itself with low RQA metrics across the board.
And then if we sort of test this question, this is just a plot of estimated marginal
means where I've done pairwise comparisons between these different RQA metrics.
And you're seeing a graphical representation here of how similar those pairwise comparisons
say each of these sounds are to each other.
And you can see positive and negative chant are pretty consistently over here.
They don't quite overlap, but distraction noise, cheer, and applause, especially here
in this determinism category.
They have similar deterministic states, deterministic measurements.
And we can talk more about this, but I think I've run out of time.
So I'll just conclude here by saying that markup blankets might be interesting.
They might be an interesting way to categorize or to describe how nested behavior within
crowds can expand and contract to have different boundaries around a crowd.
But the tools from dynamical systems analyses, such as face-based reconstruction, RQA, really
do have a lot to tell us about the information, about the difference in these two kinds of
