dynamics.
And I would love to have a conversation after this in the Q&A about how well you think we
could apply this markup blanket formalism to crowds if maybe looking at interpersonal
synergies is the better way to go.
And before we end, I just want to thank my collaborators who work with me on this project.
Emily Reeves is a PhD candidate in the applied mathematics department at UC Merced.
Chris Kellow and Michael Spivey have worked on each of these projects with us, and my
advisor, Ramesh Bell Superminium.
So thank you all for attending my talk.
You can find me on email, Twitter, if you want to know anything about UC Merced or my
lab at UC Merced, there are links.
And I look forward to chatting in the Q&A.
Thanks so much, Shannon, for the wonderful talk.
We will take questions now.
If anybody would like to come to the Q&A.
Mao.
Hey, Shannon.
It was really quite a brilliant talk.
I guess my question is...
It's interesting that you went through this from a sound perspective because in effect
that's what we believe, that's what we consider sound to be, right?
It's the main way through which we are capable of coordinating because that's how information
travels.
How would you see this sort of pattern being extended towards elements which don't necessarily
produce sound?
How would you see these patterns being analyzed outside the sound system?
Yeah, thanks.
That's a great question.
There's actually been a lot of research using recurrence quantification analysis and this
development of interpersonal synergies using motion and capture data.
So other things that coordinate...
The sound coordinates, and it's great because we can hear that result of our coordination
in a certain way.
But if we're in conversation with someone and we're chatting whether we can see them
or not, there are subtle patterns and postural fluctuations.
So these postural mechanisms that we're not aware of that keep us balanced, they'll start
maybe mirroring each other or coordinating in certain structured ways just through conversation.
You can analyze that through this motion capture data in quite a similar way that I did with
the sound.
Yeah, I mean, that's exactly what we're positing with the scripts, right?
It's that you're sending a series of signals that are codified to enable this coordination
should you desire it or, in fact, because it makes it smoother for society to just continue
existing within a set of states.
So then the next...
I mean, unless someone else has a question.
My next question would be jazz.
I mean, the reason the jazz doesn't make everybody happy, I believe, like a lot of people are
kind of ambivalent about it is because of the difficulty for people to coordinate with
the music.
Right?
Like you, as a person listening to it, are having a hard time predicting where it's going.
And thus it doesn't create this sort of flowy pleasure for a lot of people.
However, the whole point of jazz is that the musicians together are coordinating and they
literally do not even need a sheet in order to be able to coordinate because they understand
the patterns that are going on.
And so this here is maybe where I'm having a hard time understanding how some effects
of really accurate coordination create such a boundary that becomes practically impenetrable
by people, practically because some people do like jazz, but impenetrable by others who
are witnessing this and trying to coordinate.
Yeah.
So I think this goes into...
I think it fits very well with your notion of scripts and the idea that we learn these
scripts for different situations.
So it could be jazz for some people.
It could be heavy metal music for some other people.
Maybe this just sounds awful.
I don't like dancing to it.
I don't like coordinating to it.
How can you listen to this?
But after you start, maybe you join a jazz band to learn more about it and you start
learning the patterns, learning what kind of interactions are appropriate, where they're
appropriate.
You start learning the history, so you start learning which of the jazz grates someone is
calling when they're improvising on a certain line, or you start to actually recognize the
different harmonies that are actually present in this loud heavy metal music, and you start
to befriend people who are knowledgeable about these two musical systems.
You start to learn more about these musical systems.
You engage more in listening or in performing or in dancing.
What have you to these systems, and the more you engage, the more you learn, the scripts
start to help organize your participation in this greater sort of social system and
allow you to be able to integrate with that music or with people making that music.
Hi, Shannon.
Thanks very much.
I was just really curious.
This use of recurrence plots, I think it's really interesting and it seems that obviously
gives you options to open into other dynamical systems approaches and stuff.
So yeah, I wonder what your thoughts are on how these, how you really came to expand into
that and how much potential you think recurrence plots and the use of this can have for others
in their work.
Yeah, well, none of this is particularly new.
So that first look at Bernstein was in 1970 something when he was looking at people hammering
and how they didn't move to exactly the same point.
They didn't move through exactly the same trajectory.
And the use of recurrence quantification analysis has been applied to more than just
systems of motor control and it doesn't just apply to living systems either.
So you can look at the trajectory of any complex system.
I'm thinking of a hurricane over time and you can identify different trajectories in
that underlying behavior and pretty much anything that you can turn into a time series.
You can analyze using these recurrence quantification analysis tools and plot and recurrence plots.
So I think it has a similar usefulness to this notion of the free energy principle being
this like multi scale principle where you can talk about the dynamics of cells all the
way to the dynamics of city states.
Similarly, you can use this as an empirical measurement tool to compare the trajectories
of a slime mold through space or the trajectories of a crowd navigating through a city or something
like that.
I think they're equally broad and applicable and for me personally I think these dynamical
systems tools are a little bit more transparent and accessible than the mathematics that underlies
a lot of the free energy principle and the mark of blanket formalism in the sense that
in the sense and it could just be because I'm coming from sort of an experimental background
so if anything that can help me analyze my experimental data, I love it, it helps me
model my data, I need someone else to help me do the modeling.
And do you think that there's a bit like are you looking for like some mathematical way
to track correlation or can you sort of eyeball it so to speak you know like you could see
the patterns.
So there's a sort of qualitative potential I suppose but are you looking for other quantitative
ways to say I mean suppose you can clearly see something's different so it's fairly
clear there's a different pattern but I just wondered like how to say you've got a correlation
or say you've got a difference that's meaningful.
Yeah so you've touched on something there so the recurrence plots they give us that sort
of qualitative the gist of what the data looks like because I can see that these two plots
look different and then the metrics that we get through recurrence quantification analysis
are giving that numerical description of what we're seeing in the plots.
And what was the next part of your question are you looking for yeah like is there like
a quantitative way or some sort of like I don't know some sort of way that you could
get a measure that would say how much it's like this or like that.
Oh maybe like how you mean how much like crowd A is like crowd B.
Yeah or a correlation between laminatory or entropy patterns or something.
Yeah so you can look at the way these time series are generated when I'm looking at a
musical output or at a crowd output is you're looking at like windowed time slices and that's
how you're getting these different recurrence measures over time and then when I'm plotting
those distributions it's how recurrent that system was throughout this long section of
time that I've put into little windows here.
And I can look at kind of your regular you know statistical analyses whether you're using
Bayesian methods or whether you're using null hypothesis significance testing and you know
just comparing just like you would with any other yeah.
Oh thank you take it.
I don't know if there's time for my question because I think the next talk is at 10.45
then can I ask or I can also.
If the organizers don't object I can try to answer real quick.
Okay so thank you for your talk it was really interesting and really useful for me.
I was wondering the kind of examples that you studied were examples of interpersonal coordination
where there's kind of rhythms that are common to the people interacting so there is kind
of a similarity in behavior that is entrained in the interaction and I was wondering if
you wanted to study and add idea on how to study interactions where there is a coordination
around complementary behavior which is organized in function of the goals of a joint action.
So I don't know if you have ideas about that and how you could measure the kind of coordination
that emerges when people are trying to do something together and they don't add up similar
behavior that is for instance in the same rhythm but that they interact with each other
in ways that are complementary and help us reach common goals.
I don't know if you have ideas on this topic.
Yeah so that one quote that I gave you from Ricardo Fusilieri is from a paper called
Dialogue as interpersonal synergy and so dialogue it's kind of I say an easy case not the dialogue
is easy but it's a point where I'm not speaking exactly the same time that you're speaking I'm
not I might not even be using the same rhythms in my speech patterns as you are but together
this turn taking dynamic is forming this complementary process like you say and we're using that
that's forming this this functional interpersonal synergy with each other and I think that's a
great place to start it's called Dialogue as interpersonal synergy from Fusilieri et al in
2014 and there's a lot more you can look at the dynamics of sports teams so soccer players aren't
doing the same thing as other people on their team but they're coordinating literally towards
the shared goal and you can look at that in terms of functional synergies in the same way.
Thank you. Thanks so much.
