Thank you so much to Nash and to all the organizers.
This has been a fabulous weekend and a great conference.
So I am really excited to be here and to be part of this.
So I'm going to be talking to you today about acoustic social worlds and I'm going to tell
a story from Mark of Blankets to interpersonal synergies.
And before I get started, I want to lay out a little bit of a roadmap of my talk.
Hats off to the Active Inference Lab for always having great roadmaps for your presentation
that's where I'm getting this name from.
So the first thing we're going to visit today is this notion of acoustic social worlds.
And what is the relevance of acoustic social worlds for studying coordination in multi-agent
human interaction?
Then I'm going to walk through some of the ways that Active Inference and the notion
of nested Mark of Blankets might be used to describe the boundaries of multi-agent systems.
We're going to run into a little bit of a roadblock at this point, though, because there
are questions that I'm not sure Active Inference and Mark of Blanket Formalisms provide the
right answers to.
So that's going to take us on a little bit of a turn towards dynamical systems theory,
the notion of interpersonal synergies, and the analysis tools that come along with these
concepts.
And we're going to end our journey today with a look at some empirical data from two different
types of multi-agent systems, which interact through their own acoustic social worlds.
So I hope to justify to you today the strength of dynamical systems theories and nonlinear
analyses tools, such as face-to-face reconstruction and recurrence quantification analysis, while
also probing what kind of questions can be answered by appeal to these dynamical systems
analyses versus mathematical formalizations like the Free Energy Principle, Active Inference,
and Mark of Blanket Formalism.
So I just want you to start by imagining the sounds of a crowded coffee shop.
Consider how individuals in that coffee shop might be interacting with each other.
There might be some small groups or pairs, and maybe many individuals engaging in small
temporary interactions.
But these individuals are not coordinating with every other individual in a cohesive
coffee shop group, they're just a jumble of individuals cohabiting a shared space.
Now imagine an audience on the floor of a rock concert, their cheering or singing along
with the artists on the stage.
Or alternatively, imagine the fan section at your favorite sporting event, emerging
into synchronous chant or a chorus of resounding booze.
Imagine how individuals in those large crowds might be interacting with each other.
As they cheer or sing, chant, or boo, they're sharing similar behavioral states, engaging
in similar actions.
They're likely sharing similar physiological and neural states as well.
These crowds are changing together in time.
They're behaving, they're coordinating, like one large interdependent group.
These shared acoustic spaces, I'm calling them, include various levels of interaction
between dyads or larger and larger groups.
And the acoustic signal that's generated by these crowds carries some information about
the behavioral dynamics employed in creating that signal.
The sound the crowd makes carries some information about the status of that crowd as either an
incidental collection of coffee goers or an integrated coordinated crowd, like a group
of contact goers.
So active inference here, we have heard a lot about over the past few days.
It's the process by which an organism actively changes the world so as to reduce prediction
error.
Active inference is also the process that organisms use to resist the second law of
thermodynamics, to stay alive and not to dissipate into the environment.
Living systems use active inference in order to enforce a boundary between the organism
and the environment.
And we call this statistical boundary between internal states of an organism and external
states in the environment, a Markov blanket.
I want to discuss now a few papers that got me really excited about the potential for
applying this Markov blanket formalism to the dynamics of multi-agent behavior in crowds,
to this transition from something like an uncoordinated incidental crowd into an integrated
and coordinated interdependent group.
So we're going to have another imagination session real quick.
If you just consider the initiation of a slow clap by one person, then two, then four people
before breaking into a full audience of flaws.
Or if you consider the first musician in a flash mob who's initiating a flow of musicians
and audience members towards engaging in shared music making.
In these instances, as the first members of the audience start clapping or the first two
musicians begin playing, you can begin to define a Markov blanket around their interaction.
The others who aren't yet playing, who aren't yet clapping, aren't participating in this
interaction yet.
They are not yet part of this multi-agent organism.
Their functions are still statistically independent from those who are operating currently under
the shared Markov blanket.
As you add more individuals clapping or more musicians playing, that small Markov blanket
expands.
Individuals who were previously part of the environment are now a part of this larger
Markov blanket of system.
But perhaps if we're thinking of our flash mob, the first two musicians who started this
flash mob, maybe they both played the violin.
And the next two musicians who joined, their cellists, they play the cello.
The local movement patterns and musical lines of the violinists are much quicker paced than
the larger and slower movements and musical lines of the cellists.
So the Markov blankets around each diet remain and they're each nested in this larger Markov
blanket around this quartet of musicians.
This larger Markov blanket that's constraining the behavior of the entire group.
So that notion here of nested Markov blankets is spelled out in Kerchoff et al. 2018.
And what you see here in this diagram is a system that is separated from its environment
via a Markov blanket.
This blanket consists of sensory states that are affected by but do not influence the environment
and active states that are affected by but do not influence the internal states of the organism.
And that system is made up of a multi-scale hierarchical assembly of Markov blankets,
which constrained dynamics at slower global timescales and at faster local timescales.
OK, cool.
So so far I've just conceptually described a system and I've identified some interesting
parallels with the description of Markov blankets of Markov blankets.
But there are still a few issues that bug me.
Can we really call an audience or a musical ensemble, a multigent group of people, a living system?
Their Markov boundaries are much more transient, say, than the Markov blanket around the skin
of my body.
And I was thrown by a statement that Kate Nave mentioned in her talk from Friston's 2013
Life As We Know It paper that a candle flame cannot possess a Markov blanket because any
pattern of molecular interactions is destroyed almost instantaneously by the flux of gas
molecules from its surface.
And this makes me wonder, do the temporary dynamics of agents in a crowd, an audience,
a musical ensemble, do they make the crowd a little bit more like a candle flame?
Additionally, is it an issue that each of the individuals inside of this Markov blanket
system are still biological and agential individuals?
I'm still wondering about the candle issue.
However, Matt Sims and his 2020 paper on how to count biological minds has alleviated some
of my worries about each individual intaining some of their individualness within a superordinate
crowd.
So in this paper, Matt Sims has adapted the model you see on the left and the notion of
multi-scale integration to accommodate symbiotic individuals using an example case of the bobtail
squid and Vibrio fissure bacteria.
This new diagram of nested Markov blankets on the right has collapsed these yellow and
orange active incensury states, insuring them, at least in this picture, into a single layer.
And the idea is that while there is a superordinate Markov blanket around the entire squid plus
Vibrio fissure system, at the same time, there are Markov blankets around the squid, around
the Vfissure bacteria, which each individually play a role as sensory or active states with
respect to each other.
So maintaining a little bit of their individuality and functioning as part of this larger symbiotic
system.
So maybe a crowd can consist of Markov blankets in this way, and each member of the crowd
or each dyad might play the role of an active or sensory state coordinating internal and
external dynamics relative to the superordinate group, while at the same time coordinating
their own active sensory states with respect to their own internal and external dynamics.
And this concept of a nested Markov blanket might seem a little more tractable if we oppose
it on a musical ensemble, where even the spatial organization on stage is somewhat
mirroring the temporal organization of their musical output, where the drummers are going
to have similar movements to the other drummers, and they're going to have similar movements
to the other folks in the percussion section.
And then over here, the flutes and clarinets are going to have similar movements, similar
acoustic outputs that's slightly different from the trombonists and the tubas, maybe
in the back.
So they each have their Markov blankets surrounding their physical physiological states, and the
similar shared acoustic output between each of these individual groups.
But everyone's participating in the same global acoustic signal, so the same constraining
dynamics created by the musical ensemble as a whole is affecting the behavior in each
of these smaller Markov blanket systems and then each of the individuals there inside.
Now, of course, in looking at people, looking at a crowd, there are other important factors
at play when determining whether we can draw a Markov blanket around a crowd, or if we
decide that a crowd is acting as one integrated multi-agent system, rather than a collection
of just independent agents.
These include social contexts, the development of patterned cultural practices in these different
contexts, the script surrounding what events happen and when they happen, and the regimes
of shared attention between each of these agents in these different social contexts.
So I've just suggested that Markov blankets might be an interesting place to start in
describing the dynamics and the emergence of integrated interactive multi-agent groups
like a crowd.
But I don't work with the mass of the free energy principle, and I don't have the tools
to test the hypothesis that I've just put forth.
Additionally, there is more to describe than just the existence or not of a Markov blanket
and the emergence or not of a crowd-level individual.
So I have questions.
Can we measure the behavior or the emergence of Markov blankets as they expand and contract
over time?
Also, how does a group of people move between novel and habitual patterns of coordination?
How does a multi-agent system navigate and transitions between chaos and stability?
So here's when we take a slight turn, and for these questions I have found tools under
dynamical systems theory and with the concept of interpersonal synergies.
So the concept of synergies first, it arises from the literature on motor control as a
solution to the degrees of freedom problem.
So essentially Bernstein noted that fine and precise control of every degree of freedom
in a motor movement would be computationally intractable for the nervous system to solve.
So instead, muscles self-organized into coupled and locally constrained degrees of freedom,
they form temporary soft assemblies of motor function that can enable flexible movement
in coordination.
So this definition of a synergy I thought was pretty great and kind of easy to digest
from Fusarelli at Allen 2014.
And this definition, I'll read it for you.
Synergies are defined by three things, their functional specificity, dimensional compression,
and reciprocal compensation.
So the need to perform a function or functional specificity temporarily shapes the coordination
of several components into one system, this is dimensional compression, in which external
and internal perturbations are flexibly dealt with by compensatory adjustments of the components.
This is reciprocal compensation.
In order to preserve the functionality of the whole system for as long as is needed.
We can differentiate mere coordination as a result of engaging with the same stimulus
and then similar action patterns from a true interpersonal synergy, which results as micro-scale
structures of a system interact to give rise to macro-scale dynamics.
So when a synergy develops, we no longer need to describe the independent dynamics of each
micro-scale structure.
We can instead describe the behavior of a single interaction dominant system, which consists
of complimentary actions from each person's motor activity as it pertains to their role
in the softly assembled complex system.
You might even notice by looking at these graphics that there's a certain similarity
between the notion of a Markov blanket and of a synergy.
These might very well be two sides of the same coins, two perspectives on a very similar
conceptual landscape.
So let's come back to some of my questions from earlier.
Can we measure the behavior or emergence of Markov blankets around a small group of people
extending up to a large crowd as they expand and contract over time?
Similarly, can we measure the interpersonal synergies that develop, that emerge in Dyed's
large groups and entire crowds?
Again, how does a group of people move between novel and habitual forms of coordination?
How does a multi-agent system navigate transitions between chaos and stability?
And let's make it a little bit trickier.
The real world is messy and measurement is difficult.
In a naturalistic social interaction in a very large crowd, I probably can't measure
